---
title: Sera from Children with Autism Induce Autistic Features Which Can
  Be Rescued with a CNTF Small Peptide Mimetic in Rats
---

::: {#calibre_link-0 .calibre}
[]{#calibre_link-32}![Image 1](images/000036.png){.calibre2}

![Image 2](images/000001.png){.calibre2}

![Image 3](images/000012.jpg){.calibre2}

![Image 4](images/000023.jpg){.calibre2}

![Image 5](images/000034.jpg){.calibre2}

![Image 6](images/000033.jpg){.calibre2}

See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication
at[: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273955663](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273955663_Sera_from_Children_with_Autism_Induce_Autistic_Features_Which_Can_Be_Rescued_with_a_CNTF_Small_Peptide_Mimetic_in_Rats?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_2&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[Sera from Children with Autism Induce Autistic Features Which Can Be
Rescued](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273955663_Sera_from_Children_with_Autism_Induce_Autistic_Features_Which_Can_Be_Rescued_with_a_CNTF_Small_Peptide_Mimetic_in_Rats?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_3&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[with a CNTF Small Peptide Mimetic in
Rats](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273955663_Sera_from_Children_with_Autism_Induce_Autistic_Features_Which_Can_Be_Rescued_with_a_CNTF_Small_Peptide_Mimetic_in_Rats?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_3&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

**Article** *in* PLoS ONE · March 2015

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118627 · Source: PubMed

CITATIONS

READS

15

128

**7 authors**, including:

[Syed Faraz
Kazim](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Syed-Faraz-Kazim?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_5&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[Maria-Del-Carmen
Cardenas-Aguayo](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Maria-Del-Carmen-Cardenas-Aguayo-2?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_5&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[University of New
Mexico](https://www.researchgate.net/institution/University-of-New-Mexico?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_6&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

UNAM

**80** PUBLICATIONS **1,032** CITATIONS

**45** PUBLICATIONS **395** CITATIONS

[SEE
PROFILE](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Syed-Faraz-Kazim?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_7&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[SEE
PROFILE](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Maria-Del-Carmen-Cardenas-Aguayo-2?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_7&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[Fatima
Fayyaz](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Fatima-Fayyaz-3?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_5&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[Khalid
Iqbal](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Khalid-Iqbal-15?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_5&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[Northwell
Health](https://www.researchgate.net/institution/Northwell-Health?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_6&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[New York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental
Disabilities](https://www.researchgate.net/institution/New_York_State_Institute_for_Basic_Research_in_Developmental_Disabilities?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_6&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

**5** PUBLICATIONS **23** CITATIONS

**625** PUBLICATIONS **47,470** CITATIONS

[SEE
PROFILE](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Fatima-Fayyaz-3?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_7&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

[SEE
PROFILE](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Khalid-Iqbal-15?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_7&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

**Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these
related projects:** melanoma screening[ View
project](https://www.researchgate.net/project/melanoma-screening?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_9&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

Neurodegeneration[ View
project](https://www.researchgate.net/project/Neurodegeneration-18?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_9&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)

All content following this page was uploaded b[y Syed Faraz
Kazim](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Syed-Faraz-Kazim?enrichId=rgreq-d98ce2f1788a239b1829c51ba4644c4e-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzI3Mzk1NTY2MztBUzoyODk1Nzc4NjE0MzUzOTNAMTQ0NjA1MjE1MDcxMw%3D%3D&el=1_x_10&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)
on 28 October 2015.

The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

[]{#calibre_link-20}![Image 7](images/000045.png){.calibre2}

![Image 8](images/000011.png){.calibre2}

![Image 9](images/000022.png){.calibre2}

RESEARCH ARTICLE

Sera from Children with Autism Induce

Autistic Features Which Can Be Rescued with

a CNTF Small Peptide Mimetic in Rats

Syed Faraz Kazim1,2,3, Maria del Carmen Cardenas-Aguayo1, Mohammad
Arif1,

Julie Blanchard1, Fatima Fayyaz1, Inge Grundke-Iqbal1, Khalid Iqbal1,3\*

1 Inge Grundke-Iqbal Research Floor, Department of Neurochemistry, New
York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities
(NYSIBR), Staten Island, New York, United States of America, 2 Neural
and Behavioral Science Graduate Program, State University of New York
(SUNY) Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, New York, United States of
America, 3 SUNY Downstate/NYSIBR Center for Developmental Neuroscience
(CDN), Staten Island, New York, United States of America a11111

\* khalid.iqbal.ibr@gmail.com

Abstract

Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized clinically by
impairments in social OPEN ACCESS

interaction and verbal and non-verbal communication skills as well as
restricted interests Citation: Kazim SF, Cardenas-Aguayo MdC, Arif M,

and repetitive behavior. It has been hypothesized that altered brain
environment including Blanchard J, Fayyaz F, Grundke-Iqbal I, et al.
(2015)

an imbalance in neurotrophic support during early development
contributes to the patho-Sera from Children with Autism Induce Autistic

physiology of autism. Here we report that sera from children with autism
which exhibited Features Which Can Be Rescued with a CNTF Small

Peptide Mimetic in Rats. PLoS ONE 10(3): e0118627.

abnormal levels of various neurotrophic factors induced cell death and
oxidative stress in doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

mouse primary cultured cortical neurons. The effects of sera from
autistic children were Academic Editor: Rong Wen, Univeristy of Miami,

rescued by pre-treatment with a ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) small
peptide mimetic, UNITED STATES

Peptide 6 (P6), which was previously shown to exert its neuroprotective
effect by modulat-Received: November 5, 2014

ing CNTF/JAK/STAT pathway and LIF signaling and by enhancing brain
derived neuro-

trophic factor (BDNF) expression. Similar neurotoxic effects and
neuroinflammation were Accepted: January 21, 2015

observed in young Wistar rats injected intracerebroventricularly with
autism sera within Published: March 13, 2015

hours after birth. The autism sera injected rats demonstrated
developmental delay and Copyright: © 2015 Kazim et al. This is an open

deficits in social communication, interaction, and novelty. Both the
neurobiological access article distributed under the terms of the

changes and the behavioral autistic phenotype were ameliorated by P6
treatment. These

[Creative Commons Attribution
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any

findings implicate the involvement of neurotrophic imbalance during
early brain develop-medium, provided the original author and source are

ment in the pathophysiology of autism and a proof of principle of P6 as
a potential thera-credited.

peutic strategy for autism.

Data Availability Statement: All relevant data are

within the paper and its Supporting Information files.

Funding: This work was supported in part by the

New York State Office of People with Developmental

Disabilities and EVER NeuroPharma GmbH,

Unterach, Austria. S.F. Kazim is supported by SUNY

[Introduction](#calibre_link-0)

Downstate/NYSIBR Center for Developmental

Autism and autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are neurodevelopmental
disorders of as yet un-Neuroscience (CDN) Program. The funders had no

role in study design, data collection and analysis,

known etiology characterized clinically by a behavioral phenotype
comprising of impaired so-decision to publish, or preparation of the
manuscript.

cial interaction, absence or delay in language, and repetitive,
stereotyped purposeless behavior PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

1 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-21}![Image 10](images/000032.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

Competing Interests: This study was partly

[\[1--3](#calibre_link-1)\]. The onset of symptoms usually occurs after
3 years of life [\[4,5](#calibre_link-1)\]. The prevalence of autism
supported by EVER NeuroPharma GmbH, Unterach,

has increased dramatically over the last decade with most recent Center
for Disease Control Austria. Based on studies described in this

and Prevention (CDC) estimates suggesting that ASDs affect 1 in 88
children in U.S. with a manuscript, the authors submitted a patent

five-fold higher occurrence in boys as compared to girls
[\[6](#calibre_link-1)\]. Even though the exact etiology of application
to the United States Patent and

Trademark Office on 12/11/2014, entitled: "Treatment

autism is as yet not precisely elucidated, existing scientific
literature suggests a multifactoriale-of Autism Spectrum Disorders with
Ciliary

tiopathogenesis encompassing genetic, environmental, and immunological
factors, neuro-Neurotrophic Factor Peptide Mimetic"; application

trophic dysregulation, and an increased susceptibility to oxidative
stress [\[1](#calibre_link-1), [7,8](#calibre_link-1)\].

number US62/083,570; Inventors: Khalid Iqbal and

A consistent phenomenon reported in scientific literature on autism
cases is an accelerated Inge Grundke-Iqbal. This does not alter the
authors\'

brain growth during early development followed by slowed brain growth
and decreased neu-adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data

ronal number and size and less dendritic branching in various brain
regions such as cerebel-and materials.

lum, hippocampus, and amygdala \[[9--17](#calibre_link-1)\]. These
findings point towards an abnormality in regulatory mechanisms that
govern growth and differentiation of central nervous system leading to
an imbalance in neuronal and synaptic formation and pruning
\[[7,18](#calibre_link-1)\]. One of the most prominent factors in
neurogenesis, neuronal proliferation, differentiation, and pruning in
normal brain development is the microenvironment provided by various
neurotrophic factors \[[7](#calibre_link-1)\]. A dysregulation of
neurotrophic factors can be a major cause of abnormalities in
neurogenesis, neuronal migration and differentiation, synaptic
connectivity and maturation, and neuronal and synaptic pruning leading
to deficits in social behavior and cognition observed in autism.
Alterations in the levels of neurotrophic factors in the brain,
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and blood of individuals with autism have
been reported extensively (for review,

[\[1,3](#calibre_link-1), [7\]](#calibre_link-1)). A main cause of
dysregulation of neurotrophic factors in autism might be oxidative
stress during prenatal and early development which is a widely
implicated in the pathogenesis of autism \[[8](#calibre_link-1)\]. For
example, increased oxidative stress has been shown to block ciliary
neurotrophic factor (CNTF) activity in neurons which is essential for
neuronal survival and maintenance
[\[19](#calibre_link-1)--[21](#calibre_link-1)\]. On a similar note,
serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) have been
linked to oxidative stress in ASDs \[[22](#calibre_link-2)\].
Previously, cerebrolysin, a peptidergic neurotrophic preparation
\[[23](#calibre_link-2)\] which has been shown to protect chicken
cortical neurons from neurodegeneration in an iron-induced oxidative
stress model \[[24](#calibre_link-2)\] and to enhance dentate gyrus
neurogenesis and associated memory in normal adult rats
[\[25\]](#calibre_link-2) was found to improve expressive and receptive
speech and fine motor performance in 17 out of 19 children with autism
[\[26\]](#calibre_link-2). Targeting the neurotrophic abnormalities in
autism can, thus, serve as potential therapeutic approach.

The therapeutic usage of neurotrophic factors such as BDNF and CNTF has
been limited primarily because full-length neurotrophic factor molecules
poorly reach the central nervous system after peripheral administration
and have short plasma half-lives
\[[27](#calibre_link-2)--[29](#calibre_link-2)\]. Besides, recombinant
CNTF was shown to cause anorexia, skeletal muscle loss, hyperalgesia,
severe cramps, and muscle pain in human clinical trials
[\[30\].](#calibre_link-2) Previously, by mapping the biologically
active region of human CNTF, we generated an 11-mer peptide, Peptide 6
(P6), which is blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeable, has a plasma
half-life of over 6 hr, and does not cause ad-verse effects associated
with the full-length protein in mice or rats
\[[31--35](#calibre_link-2)\]. This CNTF derived small peptide mimetic
is shown to exert beneficial effect on neurogenesis, neuronal and
synaptic plasticity, and cognition via inhibition of LIF signaling
pathway and elevation of BDNF

level by increasing its transcription \[[31,35\].](#calibre_link-2)

In the present study, we show that (i) sera from children with autism
cause neurodegeneration and increased oxidative stress in embryonic day
18 mouse primary neuronal cultures; (ii) intracerebroventricular
injection of autistic sera within hours after birth produces
characteristic autistic behavioral phenotype in young rats; and (iii)
pre-treatment with P6 is neuroprotective to autistic sera-induced
changes both in vitro in primary neuronal cultures and in vivo in rats.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

2 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-3}![Image 11](images/000044.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[Table 1.](#calibre_link-3) Characterization of serum donors initially
screened

Diagnosis (DSM-IV; ADOS-G)

Autism

Control

Number of donors (M/F)

22 (15/7)

22 (13/9)

Mean Age (±S.E.M.)

4.96±0.11

5.17±0.195

Age range

4.1--6

3.76--6.4

Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised Scale (ADI-R)

QA in reciprocal social interaction

17.45±1.47 (7--28)a

N/A

QA in communication

12.14±0.58 (7--20)

N/A

Restricted, repetitive and stereotyped behavior

5.09±0.41 (3--12)

N/A

Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale (VABS)

Communication

58.86±3.9 (40--106)

N/A

Daily living skills

59±3.01 (36--104)

N/A

Socialization

58.14±1.81 (49--78)

N/A

Motor

61.41±2.93 (41--93)

N/A

a Range of the results

Abbreviations: ADOS-G; Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule-Generic;
DSM-IV, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental disorders, 4th
edition; N/A, Not applicable

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.t001

[Materials and Methods](#calibre_link-0)

[Sera from children with autism and from healthy
controls](#calibre_link-0)

Studies carried out on human sera described in the present report were
approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) of the New York State
Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities in accordance
with the NIH Guide and Federal Wide Assurance

FWA00006105. As all study participants were minors, the written informed
consent was obtained from caretakers on forms approved by our
institutional IRB. [Table 1](#calibre_link-3) summarizes the general
clinical profiles of 22 pairs of children with autism and healthy
controls whose sera were screened in in vitro studies and [Table
2](#calibre_link-3) provides details of the 3 pairs of these autism and
control subjects whose sera were used for further in vitro and in vivo
investigations. The diagnosis of autism was made using Autism Diagnostic
Observation Schedule-Generic (ADOS-G) and the Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV). Further confirmation
of the diagnosis was performed with Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised

[Table 2.](#calibre_link-3) Description of sera used for final in vitro
and in vivo analyses Diagnosisa

Age

Gender

ADIQRS

ADICOM

ADIREPST

CSS

DSS

SSS

MSS

Autism

## 5.11 {#section .calibre5 title="5.11, M"}

### M {#m .sigilnotintoc}

16

14

5

57

58

57

59

Autism

## 4.8 {#section-1 .calibre5 title="4.8, M"}

### M {#m-1 .sigilnotintoc}

15

13

8

61

63

58

56

Autism

## 4.6 {#section-2 .calibre5 title="4.6, M"}

### M {#m-2 .sigilnotintoc}

25

12

4

73

65

63

61

Control

5

M

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Control

## 5.4 {#section-3 .calibre5 title="5.4, M"}

### M {#m-3 .sigilnotintoc}

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Control

## 4.8 {#section-4 .calibre5 title="4.8, M"}

### M {#m-4 .sigilnotintoc}

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

a Diagnosis based on DSM-IV; ADOS-G

Abbreviations: ADIQRS, ADI-R QA in reciprocal social interaction;
ADICOM, ADI-R QA in communication; ADIREPST, ADI-R restricted,
repetitive and stereotyped behavior; CSS, VABS communication; DSS, VABS
daily living skills; SSS, VABS socialization; MSS, VABS motor; N/A, Not
applicable doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.t002

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

3 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-22}![Image 12](images/000010.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

(ADI-R), an abridged version of ADI administered through interviewing
the parents (Tables [1](#calibre_link-3)

and [2](#calibre_link-3)). Additional characterization of the subjects
was carried out by Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale (VABS). Blood
samples were collected from children in families belonging to the same
population based in the New York City (NYC) area and expectedly exposed
to similar profile of external environmental factors e.g. air pollution
and water contamination. Additional differences owing to variable child
care, dietary patterns, inherent household customs and preferences, and
various other non-specific environmental factors that may play some role
in the development of autism but have not yet been assigned a definitive
role were not taken into consideration. The level of IQ was not used as
a selection criterion for donors as it is not a definitive diagnostic
tool for autism. Control samples were collected from normal children who
had siblings with autism but were not related to the probands evaluated
in the current study. All autism and control subjects belonged to the
ethnic group white. The study subjects did not have any significant
history of seizures or gastrointestinal problems, none had received a
concomi-tant diagnosis of fragile X syndrome or Rett syndrome, and none
were on antidepressants, neu-roleptics, seizure medications, or
stimulants. All sera were stored as coded anonymous samples at -80°C.
Immediately before experiments, sera were thawed once and used for in
vitro and in vivo studies as indicated.

[Design and synthesis of P6](#calibre_link-0)

P6 which corresponds to amino acid residues 146--156 of human CNTF was
identified as an active region of this neurotrophic factor by epitope
mapping of neutralizing antibodies to CNTF, as described before
[\[31--33\].](#calibre_link-2) The peptide was synthesized using solid
phase peptide synthesis (SPSS) methods, purified by reverse phase HPLC
to \>96% purity, lyophilized, and characterized via HPLC, NMR, and
ESI-MS [\[31--33\].](#calibre_link-2)

[In vitro studies](#calibre_link-0)

Study outline. The effects of treatment with the sera from autistic and
control children and of P6 were evaluated in the in vitro studies using
primary cortical neuronal cell cultures from embryonic day 18 (E18)
mouse cortex. The cultured neurons were treated on 4th day in vitro
(DIV4, 72 hours after seeding) and their morphology was analyzed on DIV7
(72 hours after treatment). Subsequently, cell death and viability, and
oxidative stress were analyzed.

Primary neuronal cultures. Primary cortical neuronal cell cultures were
prepared from E18

C57BL/6 mice cortex. The procedure for the primary culture was carried
out as previously reported
\[[36](#calibre_link-2)--[38](#calibre_link-2)\]. Briefly, C57BL/6 time
pregnant E18 female mice from Charles River labs were anesthetized and
killed by cervical dislocation. All studies were performed in accordance
with the recommendations in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory
Animals of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The protocol was
approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) of
the New York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental
Disabilities (Protocol no. 199). Embryos were removed and placed in cold
hibernate A (Brain bits, Springfield, IL, USA), and all following steps
were performed in ice-cold hibernate A, using the stereoscopic
(dissection) microscope placed in a laminar flow hood. Fetal brains were
removed carefully; cerebral cortex was separated, and was dissected and
cut into small pieces using microsurgical scissors. The cut tissue was
transferred with number 5 forceps to 15 ml tubes containing 0.1% trypsin
in versene (Invitrogen Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) and
incubated for 15 min at 37°C followed by inactivation with 10% fetal
bovine serum (FBS) in Neurobasal complete medium (Neurobasal Medium
supplemented with 2x B-27, 0.3% glutamine, and penicillin/streptomycin
0.1 mg/ml and 0.1 U/ml respectively). After 72

hours, the medium was replaced and supplemented with fresh medium with
or without autism PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

4 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-23}![Image 13](images/000021.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

or control serum± P6 as described below. All medium components were
purchased from Invitrogen Grand Island, NY, USA. Cells were maintained
in an incubator at 37°C at 5% CO2/95%

atmospheric air. For recovering the protein, cells were seeded in 6-well
plates precoated overnight with 50 μg/ml poly-D-lysine (Sigma-Aldrich,
st. Louis, MO, USA) at a density of 1x106

cells/well. For immunocytochemistry, LDH and oxidative stress assays,
cells were seeded onto 8-well chambers or 96-well plates (precoated with
poly-D-lysine) at a density of 8x104 cells/

well or 7x104 cells/well in 300 or 100 μl Defined Medium, respectively.

Treatment of cultured neurons with sera with or without P6. The cells
were cultured for 72 hours prior to beginning of the treatment with a
serum alone or serum with P6 or vehicle.

Initially, the effect of 22 pairs of autism/control sera were evaluated
in 3 separate set of primary cultures. Based on these experiments, 3
pairs of sera with consistent marked effect on neuronal morphology were
selected for further experiments. Initially different concentrations of
the sera in culture medium (0.1%, 0.2%, 0.5%, and 1%) were evaluated and
based on these analyses, a final concentration of 0.2% was chosen for
subsequent experiments. Similarly, different concentrations of P6
(0.0005 μM, 0.005 μM, 0.05 μM, and 1 μM) were evaluated.

To study the cytotoxic effects of autism sera and the potential rescue
with P6, 72 hours after seeding the cells, the culture medium was
replaced with fresh medium containing different concentrations of P6.
The P6 was dissolved in water from which necessary amount was added
directly to the culture medium to achieve the desired final
concentration. Three hours after the pre-treatment with P6, sera from
autistic or control children were added to the culture medium already
containing P6 to achieve a final concentration of sera to be 0.2%. Few
wells in each plate or chamber were left vehicle treated only to serve
as controls. The treatment continued for a total of 72 hours after which
light microscopic evaluation of cultured neurons was performed and low
and high magnification images were captured using Nikon digital camera
system for digital sight, DS-Fi 1 coupled with Nikon Labophot
microscope. After a total of 6 days-in-vitro, immunohistochemical
analysis and LDH and oxidative stress assays were performed in different
set of experiments.

LDH assay for cell death and cell viability. Cell death and cell
viability were analyzed using the LDH cytotoxicity assay kit (Promega,
Madison, WI, USA), following manufacturer's instructions. Cell death
(LDH release at OD 490 nm) and cell viability (percent of control) were
plotted separately.

Oxidative stress assays. Dichlorofluorescein (DCF) fluorescence assay
for evaluating the generation of free radicals was used to determine the
intracellular production of reactive oxygen species as described
previously [\[39](#calibre_link-2)\]. Briefly, the primary neuronal
cells were treated with the cell permeable 2, 7-dichlorofluorescein
diacetate, DCFH-DA (Sigma, St. Louis, MO, USA) which is converted into
2\', 7\'-dichlorofluorescein. The 2\', 7\'-dichlorofluorescein interacts
with intracellular peroxides to form a highly fluorescent compound. The
medium was removed three days after serum with or without P6 treatment
and cells were washed with Hank's Balanced Solution, HBSS (Invitrogen,
Camarillo, CA, USA). The cells were incubated with DCFH-DA (10 μM) for
30 min and then washed with HBSS solution two times. DCF fluorescence
was quantified (excitation wave length = 485 nm, emission wave length =
530 nm) using a fluorescence multi well plate reader (Spectra Max M5,
Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA, USA).

Lipid peroxidation was assessed by determining the level of
thiobarbituric acid reactive sub-stance (TBARS) in primary neuronal cell
lysates as described previously \[[40](#calibre_link-2)\] with minor
modi-fication. Cultured neurons were lysed in lysis buffer (50 mM HEPES,
pH 7.5, 1% Triton X-100, 50 mM NaCl, 5 mM EGTA, 50 mM sodium fluoride,
20 mM sodium pyrophosphate, 1 mM sodium vanadate, 2 mM PMSF, and 8 mM
diisopropylfluorophosphate) containing 0.05% butyl-ated hydroxytoluene
(BHT). The 100 μl of cell lysate was added to 200 μl ice-cold 10%

trichloroacetic acid (TCA) on ice for 15 min to precipitate protein.
Precipitated samples were PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

5 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-33}![Image 14](images/000031.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

centrifuged at 2200xg for 15 min at 4°C. Supernatants were mixed with an
equal volume of 0.67% thiobarbituric acid and then boiled for 10 min.
Once cooled, the absorbance was read at wave length 532 nm on an
absorbance plate reader (Spectra Max M5, Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale,
CA, USA). Malonyldialdehyde (MDA, an end product of peroxidation of
polyunsatu-rated fatty acids and related esters and a marker of lipid
peroxidation) content was calculated using a molecular extinction
coefficient for MDA of 2.56 x105.

Immunocytochemistry of cultured neurons for β-III-tubulin staining.
After 3 days of treatment, cells seeded in 8-well chambers were fixed in
4% paraformaldehyde (Electron Microscopy Sciences, PA, USA) for 30 min
at room temperature, and then washed two times in PBS for storage at 4°C
prior to staining. Cells were permeabilized in 0.05% Triton-X-100 in PBS
for 20 min at 25°C, washed in PBS 3x10min, and then incubated in
blocking buffer (1%

BSA w/v, 0.2% Triton- X-100 v/v in PBS) for 45 min at 25°C. The cells
were then incubated with rabbit polyclonal anti-Tuj-1, β-III-tubulin
(1:200, Covance, Emeryville, CA, USA) antibody in blocking buffer at 4°C
overnight. The cells were washed three times for 10 min in PBS

and then incubated with fluorescently-labeled CY3-conjugated goat
anti-rabbit secondary antibody (1:500, Jackson Laboratory, Maine, USA)
diluted in blocking buffer for 2 h at 25°C in the dark. The cells were
washed 3 x 10 min in PBS and 24x60 mm cover glass (Brain Research
Laboratories, Newton, MA, USA) was mounted with Vectashield anti-fade
mounting medium (Vector Laboratories Inc., Burlingame, CA, USA) and
sealed with nail polish. The slides were examined using 20x and 40x
objectives of a Nikon 90i fluorescent microscope equipped with Nikon C1
three-laser confocal system and a Nikon DS U1 digital camera, and
analyzed with EZ-C1 Viewer Image software, Version 6.0.

Western blots of human serum samples for neurotrophic factors levels.
For Western blots to evaluate the levels of various neurotrophic factors
in sera samples, the serum samples were diluted in loading buffer and
loaded as appropriate assuming normal human serum protein concentration
to be \~80 μg/μL. 10% or 12.5% SDS-PAGE gels were employed followed by
transfer of separated proteins on 0.45 μm PVDF membranes (Pall,
Pensacola, FL, USA) for Western blots. The following primary antibodies
were used at the indicated dilutions: rabbit polyclonal anti-CNTF,
FL-200 (1:500, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA); rabbit
polyclonal anti- BDNF, N-20 (1:1000, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa
Cruz, CA, USA); goat polyclonal anti-LIF, N-18 (1:500, Santa Cruz
Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA); rabbit polyclonal anti-NGF, M-20
(1:1000, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA); and rabbit
polyclonal anti-FGF2, 147 (1:500, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz,
CA, USA). Blots were blocked for 1 hr at 37°C in TBST (0.05% Tween 20 in
TBS) containing 5% w/v blotting grade dry milk (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA,
USA), incubated in primary antibody in blocking buffer overnight at 4°C,
washed 3 times for 10 min in TBST at room temperature, followed by
incubation with secondary antibody i.e. peroxidase-conjugated
anti-rabbit or anti goat IgG (Jackson ImmunoRe-search Laboratories, West
Grove, PA, USA) diluted in blocking buffer. Blots were washed 3x 10

min in TBST and immunoreactive protein bands were visualized with
enhanced chemilumines-cence (ECL) reagents (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA).
The ECL films of the blots were scanned and analyzed using Multi Gauge
software version 3.0 (Fujifilm, Tokyo, Japan). For loading control, the
blots were developed with rabbit polyclonal antibody to GAPDH (1:1000,
Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA). For quantification of
different protein levels, each immunoreactive band was normalized to
it\'s corresponding GAPDH band.

[In vivo studies in rats](#calibre_link-0)

Study outline. To study the effect of sera and P6 in the in vivo
setting, new born Wistar rat pups (within 24 hours of birth) were
injected intracerebroventricularly with sera (final PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

6 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-24}![Image 15](images/000043.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

concentration \~2%) from autism or control children with or without P6
(final concentration

\~20 nM). The same 3 pairs of sera which showed consistent marked
effects in in vitro studies were used for in vivo evaluation. Following
injections, a battery of behavioral tests including recording of
ultrasonic vocalizations and neonatal developmental milestones in pups
and evaluation of anxiety, exploration, grooming, social
approach/novelty, depression like behavior, and motor strength in young
rats were performed. Both male and female pups were studied, and the
data were pooled. Corresponding to in vitro investigations, evaluation
of neurodegeneration and oxidative stress was carried out in the brain
tissue from young rats. The analyses were done in different batches of
animals as described below.

Animal housing and intracerebroventricular injections. Normal Wistar
rats were purchased from Charles River Laboratories (Germantown, MD,
USA) and were bred at the New York State Institute for Basic Research
Animal Colony according to the PHS Policy on Human Care and Use of
Laboratory animals. Rats were housed (2/3 animals per cage) with a 12:12
h light/dark cycle and with ad libitum access to food and water. Studies
on animals were carried out according to approved protocols from our
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) (Protocols no. 198
and 369).

On the day of birth, designated as P 0.5, pups were individually
cryoanesthetized by placing them directly on wet ice for 3 min; the
anesthetized pup's head was placed on a non-heat conducting fiber optic
light source and the lateral ventricles of the cerebrum were visualized
by transillumination. A total of 4 μL of serum with or without P6
(concentrations described below) was injected unilaterally into the
lateral ventricle through transcutaneous insertion with a specifically
designed fine 10 μL Hamilton syringe with a 30-gauge/0.5inch/hypodermic
cemented needle (Hamilton Syringe Co., Reno, NV, USA). For injections
with sera without P6, 2 μL of autism or control serum was diluted with 2
μL of 0.9% NaCl (physiological saline) to make a final concentration of
\~2% serum in rat pup CSF (assuming the total CSF volume in rat pup to
be

\~100 μL). For injections of sera with P6, 2 μL of autism or control
serum was mixed with 2 μL

of 1 μM P6 stock solution (final concentration of P6 in rat pup CSF\~20
nM). For sham injection group, 4 μL of 0.9% NaCl was injected. From each
litter, equal numbers of pups were injected for each group (sham, autism
serum, control serum, autism serum+P6, control serum+P6) to diminish the
litter effect among study groups. After intracerebroventricular
injections (i.c.v.), pups were returned to the mother, and later
behavioral tests were carried out. To avoid the potential confounding
effects of previous handling, different badges of animals were used for
ultrasound vocalizations and for neurobehavioral development and young
rat behavior.

General examination. The physical state and condition of the rats were
carefully examined throughout the study period by evaluating grooming,
posture, physical state, and clasping reflex. Body weight was recorded
daily during the initial 21 days (till weaning).

Neurobehavioral development. Examination of neurobehavioral development
in rodents is an important study tool to model neurodevelopmental
disorders like autism and Down's syndrome which are characterized by
growth retardation and delays in the appearance of developmental
milestones \[[41,42\].](#calibre_link-4) In mice and rats, the early
postnatal period is characterized by a spurt of brain growth,
synaptogenesis, myelination, and the development of motor and sensory
abilities [\[41,42](#calibre_link-4)\]. Thus, evaluation of
neurobehavioral development in rodents provides an opportunity to track
the ontogeny of the nervous system through examination of neurological
reflexes, early motor behavior including muscular strength and
coordination, and developmental signs [\[42](#calibre_link-4)\].

Evaluation of neurobehavioral development was performed following the
procedure described in the relevant literature
\[[42](#calibre_link-4)--[51](#calibre_link-4)\]. Examination was
started on postnatal day 1 and was carried out until postnatal day 17
(or until the appearance of developmental milestone/reflex) daily
between 12:00--15:00 in a set up made specifically for the purpose in
the behavior lab.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

7 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-25}![Image 16](images/000009.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

Weight was also recorded each day. The rat pups were evaluated for the
following neurological signs, reflexes, and developmental milestones.

Surface righting is a measure of labyrinthine and body righting
mechanisms, motor strength and coordination \[[42\].](#calibre_link-4)
Each rat pup was placed on its back with the experimenter's fingers
holding the head and the hind body. The pup was released gently and the
time taken in seconds to turn over with all four paws placed on the
surface of the table was measured. The test was stopped if the pup did
not turn over within maximum 30 s. It was measured once daily until the
rat pup could right itself in less than 1s for two consecutive days. The
data for the day of first appearance of the reflex was analyzed.

Negative geotaxis measures labyrinthine reflex and body righting
mechanisms, strength, and motor coordination [\[42](#calibre_link-4)\].
Each rat pup was placed head down on a square of screen mounted at an
angle of 450. The time taken by the pup to turn around 1800 to the head
up position was recorded. The test was stopped if the pup did not turn
around within 30 s. If the rat pup lost grip and slipped on the screen,
it was replaced at the start point once. The test was repeated daily
until the rat pup could perform appropriately in less than 30 s for two
consecutive days. The first day of appearance of the reflex was analyzed
for different groups.

Cliff aversion test is a measure of labyrinthine reflex function, feel
sensitivity, and motor strength and coordination
[\[42,51](#calibre_link-4)\]. The rat pup was placed on the edge of a
cliff (smooth box) with the snout and fore limbs over the edge, and the
time taken in seconds to turn and crawl away was recorded.

The test was repeated daily until the rat pup could perform
appropriately in less than 30 s for two consecutive days. The first day
of appearance of the reflex was analyzed for different groups.

Rooting reflex is a sensory tactile reflex also requiring motor
coordination; it is mediated by the trigeminal nerve (cranial nerve V)
\[[42,51\].](#calibre_link-4) A cotton swab was applied from front to
back along the side of the head and the head turning response towards
this tactile stimulus was recorded. The test was continued daily till
the pup responded correctly for 2 consecutive days.

Ear twitch reflex, a measure of sensory tactile reflex, was tested daily
by gently brushing the pulled out end of cotton swab against the tip of
the ear; a positive reflex consisted of rat pup flattening the ear
against the side of the head \[[42\].](#calibre_link-4) The test was
repeated daily until the pup responded correctly for 2 consecutive days.

Eye opening is a developmental milestone. The pups were inspected daily
for first day of opening of both eyes.

Like surface righting, air righting is also a measure of labyrinthine
and body righting mechanisms and motor coordination
\[[42\].](#calibre_link-4) The rat pup was held upside nearly 12 cm
above the soft bedding of a cage and was released; the test was
considered positive on the day when the pups land with all its four paws
placed on the surface of the bedding. The test was repeated daily until
the pup responded correctly for 2 consecutive days.

Fore limb grasp, a measure of strength, was tested by holding a rat pup
with its forepaws grasping a string fixed from one end to the other end
of the cage nearly 12 cm above the bedding. The pup was released, and
the amount of time the pup spent grasping the string was recorded. The
test was considered positive when the pup kept on grasping the string
with fore limb for \>1 s; it was repeated every day until performed
correctly for 2 consecutive days [\[42\].](#calibre_link-4)

Fore limb placing is a measure of placing reflex development which
measures sensory and motor coordination. Fore limb placing test was
performed by touching the dorsum of the paw with the edge of the table
with the animal suspended; the first day of raising the forepaw and
placing on the surface of the table was noted
\[[43,51\].](#calibre_link-4) The test was repeated daily until the pup
responded correctly for 2 consecutive days.

Auditory startle, an auditory reflex, was evaluated by clapping within
10 cm of the rat pup and the first day of the startle response was
recorded [\[42,43](#calibre_link-4)\]. The test was repeated daily until
the pup responded correctly for 2 consecutive days.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

8 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-27}![Image 17](images/000020.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

Ultrasonic vocalizations. Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) have been
widely used for behavioral phenotyping of rodent models of
neurodevelopmental disorders [\[52--56](#calibre_link-4)\]. USVs emitted
by infant rats have been reported to be a reliable index of emotional
development and communicative behavior \[[56](#calibre_link-4),
[57](#calibre_link-4)\]. Infant rats emit USVs in many different
situations including isolation from dam and littermates, physical
manipulation, and thermal and olfactory chal-lenges
\[[55](#calibre_link-4), [56](#calibre_link-4),
[58](#calibre_link-4)--[61](#calibre_link-4)\]. Isolation induced USVs
are considered to be distress vocalizations and have been shown to
elicit maternal searching and retrieval
\[[55,56,58,59\].](#calibre_link-4) In rat pups, USVs in response to
isolation distress are evident usually on the first postnatal day; they
increase in number and intensity toward the beginning of second week of
life and then abruptly disappear by the end of second week
[\[62--64](#calibre_link-4)\]. USVs produced by rat pups typically fall
in the range 20--50 KHz \[[65,66\].](#calibre_link-5)

We recorded USVs daily from 2nd to 11th postnatal day in experimental
animals based on the baseline measurements obtained initially with 12
untreated Wistar rat pups during a 5 min session daily from postnatal
day 1 to 15. On each day of testing, pups were isolated one-by-one from
their home cage and placed into an empty rectangular glass container
(length x width x height = 10 cm x 7.5 cm x 6 cm) located inside a
sound-attenuating Styrofoam box mounted with a bat detector. Three such
systems were used at the same time, thus, allowing recording of USVs
emitted by 3 pups simultaneously. Each box was closed to prevent the
detectors from detecting sounds that were not derived from the pup
inside. The temperature of the room was fixed at 22±1°C. The frequency
detectors were set to 40 KHz, which is within the vocalization range of
isolation induced USVs produced by rat pups \[[65](#calibre_link-5),
[66](#calibre_link-5)\]. The frequency detectors were attached via a
Noldus box to a computer equipped with Ultravox software, which detected
the number and duration of USVs. Minimum USV duration ("on" time;
shortest time of the noise to be counted as a call) was set to be 10ms.
For a call to be considered independent, an "off"

time (minimum time silent before a new noise is counted as a call) of
5ms was set to be required. No differences were observed in the patterns
of calling between male and female pups; thus, the data was pooled
together across gender.

Elevated plus-maze. The level of anxiety in 18--19 day old young rats
was evaluated by elevated plus maze testing. The elevated plus maze
comprised of four arms (30x5 cm) connected by a common 5x5 cm center
area. There were two opposite facing open arms (OA) and the other two
facing arms enclosed by 20 cm high walls (CA). The entire plus-maze was
elevated on a pedestal to a height of 82 cm above floor level in a room
separated from the experimenter.

The anxiogenic feature of the light for rats was maintained by ambient
luminosity at 60 Lux which is considered to be non-anxiogenic. The young
rat was placed onto the central area facing an open arm and was allowed
to explore the maze for a single 8 min session. Between each rat, the
feces were removed from the maze and the maze floor was wiped with paper
towel soaked with 70% ethanol to avoid any urine or scent cues. For each
rat, the number of OA and CA entries and the amount of time spent in
each arm were recorded by a video tracking system (ANY-Maze software,
version 4.5, Stoelting Co., Wood Dale, IL, USA). The anxiety-like
behavior was evaluated by calculating the percentage of time spent in OA
\[OA/(OA+CA) x100\]; OAs are more anxiogenic for rodents than CAs.

Open field. Exploratory behavior was analyzed by allowing 19--20 day old
young rats to freely explore an open field arena in a single 15 min
session. The testing apparatus was a classic open field consisting of a
50x50 cm PVC square arena surrounded by 40cm high walls. The open field
was placed in a room separated from the investigator and was surmounted
by a video camera connected to a computer tracking animals using a video
tracking system (ANY-Maze software, version 4.5, Stoelting Co., Wood
Dale, IL, USA). The parameters analyzed included time spent in the
center of the arena and total distance traveled which are measures of
anxiety and exploratory activity, respectively.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

9 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-28}![Image 18](images/000030.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

Grooming, social approach, and social novelty test. Grooming, social
approach, and social novelty were analyzed using a 3-chamber box in
21--23 day old young rats
[\[67](#calibre_link-5)--[72\].](#calibre_link-5) The rectangular
testing box consisted of clear plastic divided into three adjacent
chambers (each 20 cm long, 40 cm wide and 22 cm high) and connected by
open doorways (7 cm wide and 6.4 cm high). Social approach behaviors
were tested in a single 35 min session, divided into 4 phases. This
experiment had two habituation phases (center and all 3 chambers)
followed by two testing phases (sociability and novelty). The first test
or social approach phase of the test compared the preference for a
social stimulus versus an inanimate object. The second test or social
novelty phase of the test compared the preference for a now familiar
social stimulus to a novel social stimulus.

The subject young rat was acclimated to the apparatus for 5 min in the
center chamber (phase 1), and then for an additional 10 min with access
to all 3 empty chambers (phase 2).

The subject was then confined to the middle chamber, while the novel
object (an inverted wire cup, Galaxy Cup, Kitchen Plus, Streetsboro, OH)
was placed into one of the side chambers, and the stranger mouse
(stranger 1), inside an identical inverted wire cup, was placed in the
opposite side chamber. Age and gender matched Wistar rats were used as
the stranger rat. The location (left or right) of the novel object and
stranger rat alternated across subjects. The chamber doors were opened
simultaneously, and the subject had access to all 3 chambers for 10 min
(phase 3). After this, the fourth 10-min session provided a measure of
preference for social novelty (phase 4). The subject rat was gently
guided to the center chamber, the doors closed, and the novel object
removed, and a second novel rat (stranger 2) was placed in the side
chamber. The chamber doors were opened simultaneously, and the subject
again had access to all 3

chambers for 10 min. The fourth 10 min phase provided a measure of
recognition and discrim-ination. Video tracking with ANYmaze (Stoelting,
Inc.; Wood Dale, IL) automatically scored the time spent in each of the
3 chambers, frequency and duration of grooming episodes; frequency and
duration of sniffing episodes; and number of entries into each chamber
during each phase of the test. Animals used as strangers were age and
gender matched rats habituated to the testing chamber for 30 min
sessions on 3 consecutive days and were enclosed in the wire cup to
ensure that all social approach was initiated by the subject rat. An
upright plastic drink-ing cup weighed down with a lead weight was placed
on top of each of the inverted wire cups to prevent the subject rat from
climbing on top. Ambient luminosity was maintained at 60 Lux.

Forced swim test (behavioral despair test). Depression-like behavior was
analyzed using behavioral despair test (Forced swimming test, FST, or
Porsolt test) in 24--25 day old young rats. The FST, as originally
described by Porsolt et al [\[73,74](#calibre_link-5)\], assesses the
tendency to give up attempting to escape from an unpleasant environment,
whereby fewer attempts are interpreted as behavioral despair. The test
was conducted in a single 6-minute session. Briefly, test rats were
transported to a separate treatment room at least 1 hour before testing.
The rat was placed in a cylinder of water (23 cm high, 11.5 cm diameter)
filled to a depth of 16 cm that was meticulous-ly maintained at 24±1°C.
The time mice spent floating on the water (immobility time, sec) during
6 minutes as well as latency (sec) to the first immobility episode were
manually observed by the investigator. After the testing, the animal was
dried briefly with a towel and returned to its home cage. As is standard
in the literature, all rats were exposed to the forced swim stressor in
a cylinder that had been freshly cleaned and disinfected prior to the
session. As described by Porsolt et al [\[73,74](#calibre_link-5)\], an
animal was considered immobile when floating motionless or making only
those movements necessary to keep its head above the water surface.
Swimming was defined as vigorous movements with forepaws breaking the
surface of the water. Finally, the data was analyzed for immobility time
(sec) for the last 4min of the 6 min testing session.

Prehensile traction test. Prehensile traction force was evaluated
measuring fall latency of the 24--25 day old young rats suspended with
forepaws from a string suspended 60 cm from a padded surface. The
latency for the rat to fall from the string was measured up to 60 s.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

10 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-29}![Image 19](images/000042.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

Tissue processing. After completion of behavioral testing, the 26--27
day old young rats were perfused and brain tissue was collected for
immunohistochemical and biochemical analysis. Animals were anesthetized
with an overdose of sodium pentobarbital (125 mg/kg) and transcardially
perfused with 0.1 M phosphate buffered saline (PBS). After perfusion,
the brains were removed from the skull immediately. The left hemisphere
was dissected into hippocampus, cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and brain
stem, immediately frozen on dry ice, and then stored in -80°C
ultrafreezer till used for biochemical analysis. The complete right
hemisphere was immersion fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in 0.1 M PBS for
24--48 hours, followed by cryo-protection in a 30% sucrose solution at
4°C overnight. Later, the 40 μm thick sagittal sections were cut on a
freezing microtome. The sections were stored in glycol anti-freeze
solution (Eth-ylene glycol, glycerol, and 0.1 M PBS in 3:3:4 ratio) at
-20°C until further processing for immunohistochemical staining.

Quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) analysis of
rat brain tissue.

The total RNA was extracted from a small piece of left cerebral cortex
using RNeasy plus mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA, USA) according to
manufacturer's instructions. Complementary DNA synthesis was carried out
employing SuperScript first strand kit (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA).
The RT-qPCR was done using Brilliant SYBR Green Master Mix (Agilent,
Santa Clara, CA, USA) in a Stratagene Mc3000p PCR detection system under
the following conditions: 10 min at 95°C, 40 cycles of denaturation at
95°C for 30 s, annealing 55°C for 1 min, extension at 72°C for 1 min.
The primer sequences were the following: forward 5'-

GCGGCAGATAAAAAGACTGC-3' and reverse 5'-GCCAGCCAATTCTCTTTTTG-3' for

BDNF; forward 5'-GGGACAGTTGATTTAGGGG-3' and reverse 5'- GGCAGAAACTTGAG-

CATA-3' for CNTF; forward 5'-GACATGCCGCCTGGAGAAC-3' and reverse 5'-AGCC-

CAGGATGCCCTTTAGT-3' for glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase
(GAPDH).

Relative quantification was performed using the ΔΔCt method.

Western blot analysis of rat brain tissue. The remaining tissue from
left cerebral cortex from each rat was homogenized in a Teflon-glass
homogenizer to make 10% (w/v) homogenate. The pre-chilled homogenization
buffer contained 50 mM Tris---HCl (pH 7.4), 8.5% sucrose, 2 mM EDTA, 2
mM EGTA, 10 mM b-mercaptoethanol plus the following protease and
phosphatase inhibitors: 0.5 mM AEBSF, 10 μg/ml aprotinin, 10 μg/ml
leupeptin, 4 μg/ml pep-statin, 5 mM benzamidine, 20 mM
beta-glycerophosphate, 50 mM sodium fluoride, 1 mM sodium orthovanadate,
and 100 nM okadaic acid. Protein concentration of each brain

homogenate was estimatedby modified Lowry assay
\[[75](#calibre_link-5)\]. The tissue homogenates were boiled in
Laemmli's buffer for 5 min, and then subjected to 12.5%
SDS-polyacrylamide gel electropho-resis (PAGE), followed by transfer of
separated proteins on 0.45 μm Immobilon-P membrane (Millipore, Bedford,
MA, USA). The following primary antibodies were used: rabbit polyclonal
anti- BDNF, N-20 (1:1000, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA,
USA); rabbit polyclonal anti-CNTF, FL-200 (1:500, Santa Cruz
Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA); mouse monoclonal anti-GFAP (1:5000,
Millipore, Temecula, CA, USA); rabbit polyclonal anti-Iba1 (1:500, Wako
Chemicals, Richmond, VA, USA); and rabbit polyclonal antibody to GAPDH
(1:1000, Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA, USA) as loading
control. The blots were developed and quantified as described before.
For quantification of different protein levels, each immunoreactive band
was normalized to it\'s corresponding GAPDH band.

Fluoro-Jade C labeling for neurodegeneration in rat brain tissue.
Fluoro-Jade C staining was performed as described previously
\[[76,77\]](#calibre_link-5) on 4--5 sections/animal and minimum of 6
animals/group (including 2 animals for each serum sample injected).
Briefly, free floating brain sections were washed in large volumes of
distilled water, followed by 3min incubation in 100%

alcohol, 1 min in 70% alcohol, 1 min in 30% alcohol, and a 1 min wash in
distilled water. The tissue sections were then incubated in 0.06%
potassium permanganate solution for 15mins PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

11 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-8}![Image 20](images/000008.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

with gentle shaking followed by 1min wash in distilled water. The
staining solution contained a 0.001% Fluoro-Jade C (Chemicon Millipore,
Temecula, California) in 0.1% acetic acid. After 30 min incubation in
Fluoro-Jade C solution with gentle shaking, the sections were washed
three times for 1 min in distilled water followed by three 2 min rinses
in xylene. The sections were mounted and cover slipped using DPX Fluka
(Milwaukee, WI). Maximum projection images were generated based on
confocal z-stacks using Nikon 90i fluorescent microscope equipped with
Nikon C1 three-laser confocal system and a Nikon DS U1 digital camera.
Images were filtered with a predetermined threshold using NIH Image J
(v.1.46r) to create a bina-ry image identifying positive and negative
labeling and percentage of area occupied by Fluoro-Jade C positive
labeling was calculated. Mean positive label values were averaged from
3--4

non-overlapping representative fields (40X objective) from cerebral
cortex. The data from serum±Peptide 6 treatment groups was calculated as
percentage of sham treated group.

Measurement of oxidative stress using 8-OHdG in young adult rat brain
tissue. Immunohistochemistry for the DNA oxidative damage marker,
8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) was performed on free-floating
sections and every tenth brain section was chosen for quantification.
For quantification, 5--6 brain sections of minimum 6 animals per group
(including 2 animals for each serum) were analyzed. The mouse monoclonal
8-OhdG primary antibody (1:500, QED Biosceince Inc., San Diego, CA) and
Alexa 488-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG secondary antibody (1:500,
Molecular Probes, Carlsbad, CA, USA) were used. For quantification of
8-OHdG positive cells in cerebral cortex, four non-overlapping
representative fields were imaged using 40X objective and maximal
projection images were generated as described before. The number of
positive cells in each cerebral cortex high power field (hpf) were
counted and were averaged.

[Statistical analysis](#calibre_link-0)

Statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism version 5.0
(GraphPad software inc., La Jolla, CA, USA) and SPSS version 17.0 (©
SPSS Inc., 1989--2007, Chicago, Illinois, USA). Data are presented as
mean±S.E.M. The normality of the data was determined using
Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. The analysis involving multiple groups was done
using one-way or two-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni's post-hoc test.
Student's t-test was used for all other comparisons (including
inter-group comparisons for sera/peptide treatment effect). The
statistically significant outliers excluded from the analysis were
identified using Grubb's test. For all purposes, p \< 0.05 was
considered as statistically significant.

[Results](#calibre_link-0)

[Sera from autistic children induce cell death and oxidative stress
which](#calibre_link-0)

[can be rescued by P6 pre-treatment in mouse primary cultured
cortical](#calibre_link-0)

[neurons](#calibre_link-0)

Previously, sera from individuals with autism which possess abnormal
levels of various regulatory elements were shown to alter the
development and proliferation of human neural progenitor cells (NPCs)
and to possess autoantibodies against human NPCs
[\[78--80\].](#calibre_link-5) In the present study, we observed that
mouse primary cultured cortical neurons grown for 72 hours in medium
supplemented with sera from autistic children either formed neurospheres
like colonies of cells with sharp spinous processes or multiple small
cells with markedly short processes and decreased cell density as
compared to the untreated or control sera treated cell cultures both as
observed by phase contrast microscopy and by immunostaining for neuronal
marker, β-III-tubulin ([Fig. 1A](#calibre_link-6)). Primary cultured
neurons grown in the presence of sera from normal healthy PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

12 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-11}![Image 21](images/000019.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

controls revealed no gross morphological changes and only a few
neurosphere like colonies were observed. Pretreatment with 1 μM P6 for 3
hours prevented the decrease in neurite length and cell density caused
by the autism sera ([Fig. 1A](#calibre_link-6)). These results were
confirmed with 22 pairs of sera (autism and age-matched control, [Table
1)](#calibre_link-3) in 3 different sets of primary cultures. Further
analyses of cell death and oxidative stress were performed in 3 pairs of
sera [(Table 2)](#calibre_link-3)

which showed the most marked consistent effect on neuronal morphology. A
significant increase in cell death was found by LDH cytotoxicity assay
in cultured neurons grown in the presence of sera from autistic children
compared to untreated neurons [(Fig. 1B](#calibre_link-6); Bonferroni's
post-hoc test, p\<0.05; Student's t-test, p = 0.0039). Pretreatment with
different doses of P6 resulted in a significant reduction in cell death
in cultured neurons treated with sera from autistic children [(Fig.
1B](#calibre_link-6); P6 0.005 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05,
Student's t-test, p = 0.0183; P6 0.05 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc test,
p\<0.01; P6 1 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01).

The cell death was not significantly altered in cultured neurons treated
with sera from normal healthy controls compared to untreated controls
([Fig. 1B;](#calibre_link-6) Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05).

Also, the cell death was less in control sera treated neurons compared
to neurons treated with sera from autistic children [(Fig.
1B](#calibre_link-6); Student's t-test, p = 0.0642, marginal
significance). The neuronal viability, measured as a percentage of
viability in untreated cells, was also significantly decreased in
autistic sera treated neurons compared to those treated with control
sera ([Fig. 1C](#calibre_link-6); Bonferroni's post hoc test, p\<0.01,
Student's t-test, p = 0.0076). P6 pretreatment showed improvement in
neuronal viability in autism sera treated cultured neurons [(Fig.
1C](#calibre_link-6); P6 0.005 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05,
Student's t-test, p = 0.5619; P6 0.05 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc test,
p\>0.05, Student's t-test, p\<0.0765; P6 1 μM, Student's t-test,
p\<0.0964). Thus, we found that primary cultured neurons grown in the
presence of sera from autistic children showed neuronal loss which was
rescued by pretreatment with P6.

Primary cortical neurons grown in the presence of autistic sera showed
higher levels of oxidative stress as analyzed by DCF-DA assay for
free-radical production and TBARS assay for lipid peroxidation both
compared to untreated neurons ([Fig. 1D,](#calibre_link-6) DCF-DA,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; [Fig. 1e](#calibre_link-6), TBARS,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05) and to neurons treated with control
sera [(Fig. 1D,](#calibre_link-6) DCF-DA, Bonferroni's post-hoc test,
p\<0.001; [Fig. 1e,](#calibre_link-6) TBARS, Bonferroni's post-hoc test,
p\>0.05). Pretreatment with P6 resulted in a significant reduction in
generation of free-radicals in autistic sera treated neurons ([Fig.
1D;](#calibre_link-6) P6 0.05 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05;
P6 1 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001). Even though a trend
towards reduction in lipid peroxidation was noted in P6 pretreated
autism sera treated neurons but it did not reach statistical
significance [(Fig. 1E](#calibre_link-6); P6 1 μM, Bonferroni's post-hoc
test, p\>0.05). Thus, it appeared that sera from autistic children could
cause an increase in oxidative stress in primary cortical neurons which
was counteracted by pretreatment with P6.

[Levels of neurotrophic factors are altered in sera from autistic
children](#calibre_link-0)

The inappropriate brain milieu because of altered levels of various
neurotrophic factors in the sera has been hypothesized to play a major
role in abnormal brain development in autistic individuals. We thus
evaluated the levels of various key neurotrophic factors in the 3 pairs
of autism/control sera ([Table 2)](#calibre_link-3) which induced
increased cell death and oxidative stress in primary cultured cortical
neurons. Indeed, the levels of various neurotrophic factors were found
to be altered in sera from autistic children compared to those from age
and gender matched control children as evaluated by quantitative Western
blots ([Fig. 2).](#calibre_link-7) The levels of mature CNTF and BDNF
were markedly decreased in autism sera ([Fig. 2A and
B](#calibre_link-7); CNTF, Student's t-test, p =

0.0026; BDNF, Student's t-test, p = 0.0003). Conversely, the levels of
pro-BDNF, FGF-2, and LIF were found to be increased in autism sera
compared to control ([Fig. 2A and B](#calibre_link-7); pro-BDNF, PLOS
ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

13 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-6}![Image 22](images/000029.png){.calibre2}

![Image 23](images/000041.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[Fig 1.](#calibre_link-8) Effect of autism and control sera treatment
with or without P6 on neuronal death/viability and oxidative stress in
mouse primary cultured cortical neurons. (A) Representative images of
phase contrast microscopy and β-III-tubulin (mature neuronal marker)
staining of DIV7 primary cultured cortical neurons treated with 0.2%
sera from autistic or control children with or without 1 μM P6 for 72
hours. Data is based on evaluation of the effect of 22 pairs of
autism/control sera in 3 independent set of experiments.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

14 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-7}![Image 24](images/000007.png){.calibre2}

![Image 25](images/000018.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

Autism sera markedly reduced the length of the neuritis and the number
of cells and showed increased number of cell spheres and P6 could rescue
these changes (B and C) Quantification of LDH cytotoxicity assay for
evaluation of cell death (LDH release) and neuronal viability in DIV7
primary cultured cortical neurons treated with 0.2% sera from autistic
or control children with or without 1 μM P6 for 72 hours. Data are shown
as mean±S.E.M. based on the effect of 3 pairs of autism/control sera in
3 independent sets of experiments. (D and E) Data for DCF-DA assay for
free radical production and TBARS assay for lipid peroxidation 3 days
after treatment (DIV7) with sera from autistic or control children
(0.2%) with or without P6

pre-treatment (0.005 μM, 0.05 μM, and 1 μM) is shown. Data are shown as
mean±S.E.M. based on two independent sets of experiments evaluating 3
pairs of autism/control sera. \*p\<0.05, \*\*p\<0.01, and

\*\*\*p\<0.001. ANOVA with Bonferroni's post-hoc test and/or Student's
t-test. Scale bar = 100 μm.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.g001

Student's t-test, p = 0.0043; LIF, Student's t-test, p = 0.0216; FGF-2,
Student's t-test, p =

0.0194). No statistically significant differences were observed in the
levels of NGF ([Fig. 2A and](#calibre_link-7)

[B;](#calibre_link-7) Student's t-test, p = 0.5693). These data
suggested the presence of neurotrophic abnormalities in the sera from
autistic children that could have contributed to altered development of
neurons and increase in cell death and oxidative stress found above
[(Fig. 1).](#calibre_link-6)

[Sera from autistic children induce developmental delay in rat pups
which](#calibre_link-0)

[can be rescued by co-treatment with P6](#calibre_link-0)

The Wistar rat pups were injected intracerebroventricularly with autism
or control sera with or without P6 within 24 hours of birth to evaluate
their possible neurotoxic effect and potential neuroprotection by P6 in
vivo. The in vivo studies were carried out using the same 3 pairs of
autism/control sera as above for in vitro studies. Five groups of
animals of 5--6/group were employed [(Fig. 3A](#calibre_link-9)): (1)
sham group injected with saline; (2) pups injected with sera from
autistic children (5--6 rat pups for each serum); (3) pups injected with
sera from normal healthy controls (5--6 rat pups for each serum); (4)
pups injected with sera from autistic children plus P6

(5--6 rat pups for each serum); and (5) pups injected with sera from
controls plus P6 (5--6 rat pups for each serum). The body weight
recorded daily for infant rats (both male and female) from postnatal day
1 to postnatal day 21 did not differ significantly among the groups
\[[S1 Fig](#calibre_link-10); repeated measures 2-way ANOVA; group
effect, F = 0.36 (4, 672), p = 0.836\].

In neurobehavioral development study, autism serum injected pups
displayed a significant delayed development of surface righting reflex
compared to saline injected sham group and control serum group ([Fig.
3B](#calibre_link-9), panel 1; ANOVA, p = 0.0049, sham vs. autism serum
group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01, autism serum vs. control
serum group, p\<0.05). Autism

[Fig 2.](#calibre_link-11) Levels of various neurotrophic factors in
sera from autistic and control children. (A and B) Representative images
and quantification of Western blots for evaluation of levels of various
neurotrophic factors in 3 pairs of sera from autistic and control
children used in the study are shown. A1, A2, A3, and C1, C2, C3,
represent 3 autism and 3 control cases, respectively. \*p\<0.05,
\*\*p\<0.01, and \*\*\*p\<0.001. Student's t-test.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.g002

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

15 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-26}![Image 26](images/000028.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

serum with P6 injected group showed a trend towards earlier development
of surface righting compared to autism serum alone group; however, the
difference did not reach statistical significance ([Fig.
3B](#calibre_link-9), panel 1; autism serum vs. autism serum+P6,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05, Student's t-test, p = 0.074).

Similarly, autism serum injected pups showed delayed appearance of
negative geotaxis as compared to sham and control serum pups [(Fig.
3B](#calibre_link-9), panel 1; ANOVA, p = 0.0018, sham vs. autism group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01, autism serum vs. control serum
group, p\<0.01). Autism serum with P6 group showed earlier development
of negative geotaxis reflex compared to autism serum group ([Fig.
3B,](#calibre_link-9) panel 1; Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05,
Student's t-test, p = 0.044). Besides delay in appearance of negative
geotaxis, autism serum group also took longer times to turn 1800 to head
up position and move towards the top of the metal-lic grid in negative
geotaxis testing over the period of development [\[S2A
Fig;](#calibre_link-12) repeated measures 2-way ANOVA; group effect, F =
4.78 (4, 219), p = 0.001; postnatal day 8, sham vs. autism serum group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05; postnatal day 14, sham vs. autism
serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01\]. Autism serum with P6
group showed a trend towards better performance compared to autism serum
alone group, however, it was not statistically significant.

The appearance of cliff aversion reflex did not differ significantly
across groups [(Fig. 3B](#calibre_link-9), panel 1; ANOVA, p = 0.8410).
The autism serum injected pups took longer time to show cliff aversion
compared to sham group during the observed period of development;
however, it was not statistically significant [(S2B
Fig](#calibre_link-12); repeated measures 2-way ANOVA, group effect, F =
1.68

(4, 219), p = 0.1567; sham vs. autism serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc
test, p\>0.05), and P6

treatment had no detectable effect on cliff aversion reflex.

The tests for rooting reflex and forelimb grasp did not reveal any
significant differences among groups [(Fig. 3B,](#calibre_link-9) panel
1; rooting, ANOVA, p = 0.1044; forelimb grasp, ANOVA, p = 0.2626).
Similarly, the appearance of eye opening and auditory startle did not
differ between groups [(Fig. 3B,](#calibre_link-9)

panel 2, eye opening, ANOVA, p = 0.9708; auditory startle, ANOVA, p =
0.3677).

The development of air righting which like surface righting is a measure
of labyrinthine reflex and motor coordination was significantly delayed
in autism serum injected pups compared to sham group and control serum
group; this developmental delay was significantly corrected by P6
treatment ([Fig. 3B,](#calibre_link-9) panel 2; ANOVA, p = 0.0002; sham
vs. autism group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01; autism serum vs.
control serum group, p\<0.001; autism serum vs. autism serum+P6 group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05).

Similarly, development of ear twitch reflex was markedly delayed in
autism serum injected pups compared to sham and control serum groups but
P6 had no significant effect [(Fig. 3B](#calibre_link-9), panel 2;
ANOVA, p\<0.0001; sham vs. autism group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test,
p\<0.001; autism serum vs. control serum group, p\<0.01; autism serum
vs. autism serum+P6 group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05).

Finally, fore limb placing was significantly delayed in autism serum
injected animals compared to sham and control serum groups and the
performance in autism serum with P6 group was improved ([Fig.
3B](#calibre_link-9), panel 2; ANOVA, p = 0.0075; sham vs. autism group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05, Student's t-test, p = 0.0143;
autism serum vs. control serum group, p\<0.05; autism serum vs. autism
serum+P6 group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05).

Overall, the developmental milestones in rats which were affected by
treatment with autism serum involved complex motor performance and
skills; on the contrary, most of the neurodevelopmental behaviors which
were unaltered in autism serum injected pups are known to be mediated by
simplex reflex circuitry \[[42,44,46](#calibre_link-4),
[50,](#calibre_link-4) [81\].](#calibre_link-5) P6 co-injected with
autism serum was able to ameliorate the deficits in negative geotaxis,
air righting and fore limb placement induced by autism serum.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

16 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-9}![Image 27](images/000040.jpg){.calibre2}

![Image 28](images/000006.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[Fig 3.](#calibre_link-7) Design of the in vivo study and the effects of
autism and control sera in the presence or absence of P6 on
neurobehavioral development in rats. (A) Newly born Wistar rat pups were
injected intracerebroventricularly on on postnatal day (P) 0.5 with
saline (sham) or 2% autism or control serum with or without 20 nM P6.
Behavioral studies were performed from postnatal day 2 to 25 in rats.
(B) Evaluation of neurobehavioral development in Wistar rat pups from
postnatal day 1--21(B1) Day of appearance of surface righting, negative
geotaxis, cliff aversion, rooting, and forelimb grasp and (B2) air
righting, eye opening, auditory startle, ear twitch, and fore limb
placing. Data are presented as mean±S.E.M. based on sham (n = 17),
autism serum (n = 15--16), autism serum+P6 (n = 16--17), control serum
(n = 15--16), and control serum+P6 (n = 16--17). \*p\<0.05, \*\*p\<0.01,
and \*\*\*p\<0.001. ANOVA with Bonferroni's post-hoc test and/or
Student's t-test.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.g003

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

17 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-15}![Image 29](images/000017.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[Sera from autistic children induce deficits in isolation-induced
ultrasonic](#calibre_link-0)

[vocalization calls in rat pups](#calibre_link-0)

Social communication deficit is one of the fundamental clinical
phenotype of ASDs [\[82,83](#calibre_link-5)\].

Although rodents such as rats and mice do not use language, they emit
auditory signals including USVs [\[71,72](#calibre_link-5)\]. USVs
emitted by rat pups upon separation from the dam and littermates can be
used to assess the ability of social communication
[\[71,72\].](#calibre_link-5) We found that number of isolation-induced
ultrasonic calls was significantly lower in pups injected with sera from
autistic children compared to saline injected sham group and control
sera injected group on postnatal days 5, 7, and 9 [\[Fig.
4A;](#calibre_link-13) repeated measures 2-way ANOVA, group effect, F =
28.84 (4, 365), p\<0.0001; postnatal day 5, sham vs. autism serum group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001, autism serum vs control serum
group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; postnatal day 7, sham vs.
autism serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05, autism serum vs
control serum group, post-hoc test, p\<0.05; postnatal day 9, sham vs.
autism serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01, autism serum vs
control serum group, post-hoc test, p\<0.01\]. No significant effect of
P6 treatment was found on USVs emitted by the rat pups. The mean
duration of ultrasonic calls did not differ between groups [\[Fig.
4B](#calibre_link-13); repeated measures 2-way ANOVA, group effect, F =
1.79 (4, 365), p = 0.1306\]. The decreased number of ultrasonic calls
emitted after maternal and littermate isolation in rat pups injected
with sera from autistic children suggest decreased propensity towards
their mothers as is also common in autistic infants.

[P6 treatment can rescue social approach and novelty impairments
in](#calibre_link-0)

[autism sera treated young rats](#calibre_link-0)

During the first habituation phase of the 3-chamber social
approach/novelty task, the grooming time as measured during the 5 min
exploration of the central chamber did not differ between the different
groups ([Fig. 5A](#calibre_link-14); ANOVA, p = 0.2988). Nonetheless,
there was a strong trend towards increased grooming time in young rats
injected with sera from autistic children compared to the sham group
suggesting an increased tendency towards a spontaneous repetitive
behavior [(Fig. 5A](#calibre_link-14); Bonferroni's post hoc test,
p\>0.05; Student's t-test, p = 0.014).

In the 3-chambered social arena test, young rats injected with sera from
autistic children displayed dysfunctional social interaction behavior
(one of the most recognizable manifesta-tions of autistic behavior)
compared to sham and control serum injected groups [(Fig. 5B
and](#calibre_link-14)

[C).](#calibre_link-14) The young rats injected with autistic sera spent
much less time interacting with social partner ("stranger 1") compared
to sham and control serum groups; P6 treatment had no effect on this
autistic behavior [(Fig. 5B](#calibre_link-14), panel1; sham vs. autism
serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001, autism serum vs
control serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; autism serum
vs autism serum+P6, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05). Similar trends
were observed for time spent in social partner chamber and empty cup
chamber ([Fig. 5B,](#calibre_link-14) panel 2; sham vs. autism serum
group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001, autism serum vs control
serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; autism serum vs
autism serum+P6, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05).

In a subsequent trial, when a novel social partner ("stranger 2") was
introduced, autism sera injected rats displayed a marked lack of
preference for social novelty compared to sham and control serum groups;
P6 treatment was able to rescue this deficit [(Fig.
5C](#calibre_link-14); sniffing time, sham vs. autism serum group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001, autism serum vs control serum
group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; autism serum vs autism
serum+P6, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; time spent in stranger 2
chamber, sham vs. autism serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test,
p\<0.001, autism serum vs control serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc
test, p\<0.05; autism serum vs autism serum+P6, Bonferroni's post-hoc
test, p\<0.05). These PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

18 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-13}![Image 30](images/000024.png){.calibre2}

![Image 31](images/000037.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[Fig 4.](#calibre_link-15) Effects of autism and control sera in the
presence or absence of P6 on ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) from
postnatal day 2--11 in rat pups.

(A and B) Social communication in young Wistar rats injected
intracerebroventricularly on P 0.5 with sham or 2% autism or control
serum with or without 20

nM P6. Social communication was evaluated by the number (A) and duration
(B) of isolation induced ultrasonic calls emitted by rat pups during the
5min test on postnatal days 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11. Data are presented as
mean±S.E.M. in saline (sham) (n = 15--17), autism serum (n = 15--17),
autism serum+P6 (n = 15--

17), control serum (n = 15--17), and control serum+P6 (n = 15--17)
treated pups. \*p\<0.05, \*\*p\<0.01, and \*\*\*p\<0.001. ANOVA with
Bonferroni's post-hoc test and/or Student's t-test.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.g004

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

19 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-14}![Image 32](images/000002.png){.calibre2}

![Image 33](images/000013.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[Fig 5.](#calibre_link-15) Effect of autism and control sera in the
presence or absence of P6 on grooming, social approach and novelty in
young Wistar rats. P 0.5 rat pups were injected
intracerebroventricularly with saline (sham) or 2% autism or control
serum with or without 20 nM P6. (A) Grooming time measured during the
first 5 min habituation phase in the central chamber of the 3-chamber
social approach/novelty task. (B) Sniffing time and time in the chamber
("stranger rat 1" versus "novel object") spent in the social approach
PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

20 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-17}![Image 34](images/000005.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

task. (C) Sniffing time and time in the chamber ("stranger rat 1" versus
"stranger rat 2") spent in the social novelty task. Data are presented
as mean±S.E.M. based on sham (n = 15), autism serum (n = 15), autism
serum+P6 (n = 16), control serum (n = 15), and control serum+P6 (n =
16). \*p\<0.05, \*\*p\<0.01, and

\*\*\*p\<0.001. ANOVA with Bonferroni's post-hoc test and/or Student's
t-test.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.g005

data suggest that the dysfunction in social novelty which is also a
measure of short-term social memory induced by sera from children with
autism was rescued by P6.

The autism sera did not induce any significant changes in the level of
anxiety, exploratory activity, motor performance, or depression in rats
[(S3 Fig](#calibre_link-12)).

[Sera from autistic children induce neurodegeneration and
increase](#calibre_link-0)

[oxidative stress and neuroinflammation in young rats brains which
is](#calibre_link-0)

[counteracted by P6 probably via increase in BDNF
expression](#calibre_link-0)

In parallel with the in-vitro studies utilizing primary cultured
cortical neurons, we investigated the in vivo effect of sera from
autistic and control children and potential neuroprotective effect of P6
on neurodegeneration and oxidative stress in the cerebral cortex of
young rats. Fluorojade C histochemical staining, a sensitive marker of
neurodegeneration, confirmed a marked increase in neurodegeneration in
autism serum injected rats compared to sham and control serum group; P6
was able to significantly reduce this autism serum induced
neurodegeration

[(Fig. 6A and B;](#calibre_link-16) ANOVA, p\<0.0001; sham vs. autism
group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; autism serum vs. control
serum group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01; autism serum vs.
autism serum+P6 group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05). Similarly,
a marked increase in 8-OHdG positive neurons, a marker of DNA damage
caused by oxidative free radicals, was observed in autism serum injected
rats; P6 also exerted a beneficial effect here [(Fig.
6C](#calibre_link-16)

[and D;](#calibre_link-16) ANOVA, p\<0.0001; sham vs. autism group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; autism serum vs. control serum
group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.001; autism serum vs. autism
serum+P6 group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05). Collectively,
these data provided the anatomical and physiological basis for the
behavioral abnormalities observed in autism sera injected rats and the
potential therapeutic beneficial effect of P6.

We further evaluated the effect of sera with or without P6 treatment on
the protein and mRNA expression levels of BDNF and CNTF in the cerebral
cortex of young rats. The densitometric quantification of Western blots
developed with anti-BDNF and normalized to GAPDH

revealed decreased levels of both pro-BDNF and mature BDNF in autistic
sera treated rat brains compared to control sera treatment group [(Fig.
6E and F;](#calibre_link-16) Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05 for
both pro-BDNF and BDNF). P6 (20 nM) co-treatment was able to correct the
autistic sera induced reduction in both pro-BDNF and BDNF expressions
([Fig. 6E and F](#calibre_link-16); pro-BDNF, Bonferroni's post-hoc
test, p\<0.001; BDNF, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01). The mRNA
level of BDNF was significantly lower in autistic sera treated rat
brains compared to sham and control sera treatment groups [(Fig.
6G](#calibre_link-16); ANOVA, p = 0.0006; sham vs. autism group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01; autism serum vs. control serum
group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.01). P6 treatment significantly
enhanced BDNF mRNA levels [(Fig. 6G](#calibre_link-16); autism serum vs.
autism serum+P6 group, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05, Student's
t-test, p =

0.0049). These data suggests that the beneficial effect of P6 on
abnormalities in autism sera treated rats could be because of rescue of
BDNF level.

The CNTF levels did not differ significantly between sham, autism serum,
autism serum

+P6, and control serum groups [(Fig. 6E and F;](#calibre_link-16) ANOVA,
p = 0.068, Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05); however, there was a
significant increase in CNTF expression in control serum+P6

group compared to control serum alone group ([Fig. 6E and
F;](#calibre_link-16) Bonferroni's post-hoc test, PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

21 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-16}![Image 35](images/000016.png){.calibre2}

![Image 36](images/000027.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[Fig 6.](#calibre_link-17) Effect of autism and control sera in the
presence or absence of P6 on neurodegeneration, oxidative stress, and
CNTF, BDNF, and pro-BDNF

expression in the cerebral cortex of young Wistar rats. P 0.5 rats were
injected intracerebroventricularly with saline (sham) or 2% autism or
control serum with or without 20 nM P6. On postnatal day 26--27, rats
were sacrificed and their brains were evaluated by quantitative
immunohistochemistry and Western blots (A and B) Quantification and
representative images of Fluorojade C staining, a sensitive marker of
neurodegeneration, in the cerebral cortex are shown. Quantification is
based on minimum of 6 animals/group (including 2 animals for each serum
sample injected). (C and D) Quantification and PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

22 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-30}![Image 37](images/000039.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

representative images of 8-OHdG positive neurons, a marker of DNA damage
caused by oxidative free radicals, in the cerebral cortex are shown.

Quantification is based on minimum of 6 animals/group (including 2
animals for each serum sample injected). (E and F) Representative
Western blots and densitometric quantification of BDNF, pro-BDNF, and
CNTF expression normalized to GAPDH in the cerebral cortex of young
Wistar rats. Data are presented as mean±S.E.M. based on sham (n = 7),
autism serum (n = 7), autism serum+P6 (n = 8), control serum (n = 6),
and control serum+P6 (n = 7). (G) Messenger RNA expression levels of
BDNF and CNTF presented as percent of sham group. Quantification is
based on 6 rats/groups. \*p\<0.05, \*\*p\<0.01, and \*\*\*p\<0.001.
ANOVA with Bonferroni's post-hoc test and/or Student's t-test. Scale bar
= 100 μm.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.g006

p\>0.05; Student's t-test, p = 0.0155). Similarly, CNTF mRNA level did
not differ between groups [(Fig. 6G](#calibre_link-16); ANOVA, p =
0.922; Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05).

We further evaluated the effect of autism sera treatment on two markers
of neuroinflammation i.e., glial fibrillary acidic protein, GFAP, a
marker of astrocytes, and Iba1, a marker of microglia, in the cerebral
cortex of young rats by Western blots. The levels of GFAP were
marginally increased in autism serum group compared to sham animals [(S4
Fig](#calibre_link-12); GFAP, ANOVA, p = 0.0104, Bonferroni's post-hoc
test, p\>0.05, Student's t-test, p = 0.073) and significantly increased
compared to control serum group (Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\<0.05).
P6 treatment significantly reduced GFAP levels [(S4
Fig;](#calibre_link-12) autism serum vs autism serum+P6 group,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05, Student's t-test, p = 0.049). There
were no significant differences between groups in the expression levels
of Iba1 ([S4 Fig;](#calibre_link-12) Iba1, ANOVA, p = 0.3012,
Bonferroni's post-hoc test, p\>0.05)

[Discussion](#calibre_link-0)

ASDs constitute a major healthcare problem with millions affected in
U.S. and worldwide. The exact etiopathogenesis of the disorder is not
yet known and there is no effective pharmacologi-cal treatment available
for these patients. Among the many hypothesized etiological factors,
early neurotrophic imbalance by virtue of providing improper brain
milieu has been speculated to play a major role in the pathogenesis of
autism. The present study shows that alterations in the levels of
neurotrophic factors in the sera from autistic individuals could
contribute to neurobehavioral phenotype of autism in rats. We found that
a CNTF small peptide mimetic, P6, could rescue the ASD specific deficits
in rats probably by inducing an increase in BDNF level.

These data provide rationale for neurotrophic factors based serum/plasma
screening assay for autism and a potential therapeutic strategy via
modulation of neurotrophic support. Further-more, the
intracerebroventricular treatment of newborn rats with sera from
children with autism provides a potential useful animal model of the
disease.

Neurotrophic factors play essential roles in all stages of central
nervous system development and maintenance; they critically influence
the formation and elimination of neuronal connec-tions
\[[84](#calibre_link-5)\]. Several studies suggest that aberrant
cerebral connectivity and synaptic plasticity constitute essential
features of the pathogenesis of autism (for review,
\[[1](#calibre_link-1)--[5\]).](#calibre_link-1) Thus, neurotrophic
factors which are essential mediators of neuronal and synaptic
plasticity have been hypothesized to play a major role in the
pathophysiology of autism. Altered brain, CSF, and serum levels of
neurotrophic factors have been reported in patients with autism. For
example, serum level of BDNF, which plays an essential role in brain
development, neurogenesis and synaptogenesis, and synaptic plasticity,
was shown to be decreased in children, adolescents, and adults with
autism \[[22](#calibre_link-2),
[85](#calibre_link-5)--[88](#calibre_link-18)\]. Contrarily, few studies
have reported increased BDNF

serum levels in patients with autism (particularly during the early
neonatal period), and an increase in BDNF levels during early
developmental stages has been speculated to contribute to the
pathophysiology of autism [\[89--93\].](#calibre_link-18) Our data which
is based on \~5year old children suggest that BDNF levels are decreased
in autism, and this may contribute to abnormalities in neurogenesis and
synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity in autism. Interestingly, we
found that the levels of pro-BDNF, the precursor to mature BDNF, were
increased in sera from children with PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

23 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-31}![Image 38](images/000004.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

autism. This finding which is in concordance to the report by Garcia et
al \[[94](#calibre_link-18)\] suggests the de-fective processing of
pro-BDNF to BDNF in autism. Nonetheless, we found that the protein
levels of both pro-BDNF and BDNF and mRNA level of BDNF were decreased
in autism sera treated rat brain tissue. Besides BDNF, we also observed
abnormalities in the serum levels of various other neurotrophic factors
in children with autism. The serum levels of CNTF were found to be lower
and the levels of FGF-2 and LIF were found to be higher in children with
autism compared to age-matched healthy controls. Previously, increased
oxidative stress which is widely implicated in the pathophysiology of
autism was shown to block CNTF activity in neurons which is essential
for neuronal survival and maintenance
\[[19](#calibre_link-1)--[21](#calibre_link-1)\]. We previously showed
that increase in FGF2 levels inhibits neuronal lineage determination and
maturation during neurogenesis, and it can be counteracted by both CNTF
and P6 \[[23\].](#calibre_link-2) Our previous studies also showed that
LIF, a cytokine, which maintains totipotency of neural stem cells and
inhibits neuronal lineage while favoring glial lineage formation
[\[95--99\]](#calibre_link-18) can be inhibited with P6
\[[31\].](#calibre_link-2) Our data suggest that the levels of various
neurotrophic factors are altered in sera from children with autism and
this imbalance along with the increased oxidative stress could be among
the primary factors responsible for the altered development and
neurodegeneration observed in both in vivo and in vitro models.

Oxidative stress resulting from excess generation of reactive oxygen
species (ROS) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of autism
\[[8](#calibre_link-1)[,100](#calibre_link-18)\]. Previously, lipid
peroxidation markers were reported to be elevated in plasma from
children with autism indicating that oxidative stress is increased in
this disease [\[101\].](#calibre_link-18) Contrarily, the serum levels
of major antioxidant proteins, transferrin (iron-binding protein) and
ceruloplasmin (copper-binding protein), were found to be significantly
decreased in children with autism compared to their non-autistic
siblings

[\[101\].](#calibre_link-18) We found that culturing the mouse primary
cortical neurons in the presence of sera from autistic children result
in increase in levels of ROS and lipid peroxidation. Similarly,
increased oxidative stress-induced DNA damage was observed in brain
tissue from rats exposed to sera from autistic children during the early
period of development. These findings support the notion that altered
brain environment contributes to increased oxidative stress in early
developmental stages in autism. Increased oxidative stress has been
suggested to lead to membrane lipid abnormalities, mitochondrial
dysfunction, excitotoxicity, and immune dysfunction in autism, and may
ultimately contribute to the behavioral phenotype of autism
\[[8\].](#calibre_link-1)

Inflammatory changes especially astroglial activation have been
described in the brains of patients with autism
[\[102--104](#calibre_link-18)\] and may contribute to the pathogenic
mechanisms involved in cortical and neuronal dysfunction
\[[105](#calibre_link-18)\]. Astrocytes and microglia play critical
roles in the neurobiological processes of cortical organization,
neuroaxonal guidance, and synaptic plasticity
\[[105--107\].](#calibre_link-18) Increased GFAP level observed in the
present study in autism sera treated rats could signify gliosis,
reactive injury and impaired neuronal migration processes
[\[105,108\].](#calibre_link-18) The rescue of astorgliosis by P6
treatment in the present study signifies the potential therapeutic usage
of neurotrophic factor based strategy for ameliorating neuroinflammation
in ASD.

The present study suggests that dysfunction of brain environment in
autism can contribute to behavioral deficits. Exposing the cultured
neurons and early postnatal brains to sera from autistic children
resulted in neurodegeneration, increased oxidative stress, and
behavioral impairments. It has been hypothesized that the abnormal
behavioral phenotype of autism may result from structural and functional
alterations in brain caused by abnormalities in brain development during
embryonic period and early postnatal life
\[[109](#calibre_link-18)--[111](#calibre_link-19)\]. Increased
oxidative stress and imbalance of neurotrophic factors could be major
contributing factors to pathophysiology of autism. During early brain
development, neurotrophic factors provide an appropriate brain milieu
necessary for all aspects of neural development including neuronal
proliferation, differentiation, growth, and migration
\[[112--115\].](#calibre_link-19) Similarly, neurogenesis is highly
sensitive to PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

24 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-10}![Image 39](images/000015.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

oxidative stress induced damage; hippocampal neurogenesis is reported to
be reduced after exposure to oxidative stress in vivo in an environment
lacking antioxidant enzymes \[[116,117](#calibre_link-19)\].

Thus, we can hypothesize that impaired neurotrophic balance and
increased oxidative stress could alter the early brain development
leading to autistic behavioral phenotype.

The beneficial effect we observed with P6 treatment further strengthens
the idea that autism could be caused by an early imbalance of
neurotrophic factors and increased oxidative stress.

P6 pretreatment prevented cell death induced by autism sera in primary
cultured cortical neurons. P6 is an 11-mer CNTF derived peptide which
has been demonstrated to exert neurogenic and neurotrophic effects both
in vivo and in vitro
\[[31](#calibre_link-2)--[35](#calibre_link-2)[,118,119\].](#calibre_link-19)
The CNTF/JAK/STAT

pathway has been implicated in the development, survival, and
maintenance of neurons and glia in central nervous system
[\[21,](#calibre_link-1) [120](#calibre_link-19),
[121](#calibre_link-19)\]. We had reported previously that P6 which
corresponds to a biologically active region of human CNTF exerts its
neurogenic and neurotrophic effect via modulation of JAK/STAT and LIF
signaling pathways and increased expression of BDNF
[\[31,35](#calibre_link-2)\]. In the current study, we found that P6 was
able to rescue autism serum-induced neurodegeneration and oxidative
stress in cultured neurons and rat brains. The neuroprotective effect of
P6 could have been because of increased BDNF expression we observed in
P6

treated rat brains. We previously showed that P6 and its fragment
peptide, Peptide 021 (P021) enhance BDNF mRNA and protein levels
\[[35,38\];](#calibre_link-2) BDNF is known to exert protective effect
against oxidative stress [\[122,123\].](#calibre_link-19) Recently, a
relationship has been suggested between BDNF, sonic hedgehog (SHH), and
oxidative stress in autism [\[22](#calibre_link-2)\]. Wu et al
\[[124](#calibre_link-19), [125](#calibre_link-19)\] showed that BDNF
induces up-regulation of SHH at both mRNA and protein levels, and the
protective effect of BDNF in cortical neurons could be abolished by
using SHH signaling inhibitor. Based on this, we can speculate that the
protective effect of P6 against autism serum-induced neuro-degenration
and oxidative stress could have been mediated via BDNF.

One of the most remarkable findings of the current study is the
development of several features of autism in young rats whose brains
were exposed to sera from autistic children via i.c.v.

injections. This single finding strongly suggests the important role
brain environment plays during early development in the pathophysiology
of autism. Early postnatal exposure of brain tissue to sera from
autistic children which had abnormalities in neurotrophic factor levels
led to developmental delay and social communication, interaction, and
memory deficits in young rats. Several of these deficits such as
developmental delay and social memory deficits were rescued by P6
treatment. Interestingly, the early postnatal exposure to autistic sera
resulted in increased oxidative stress induced DNA damage and
neurodegeneration in cortical tissue of young rats providing the
structural correlate for behavioral abnormalities observed in these
rats. Remarkably, P6 treatment was able to rescue these structural
abnormalities probably via increased BDNF expression.

In summary, this study provides evidence regarding the neurotrophic
abnormalities in autism and the potential role they play in the
pathophysiology of the disease. We speculate that the brain milieu of
autistic children is altered and favors increased oxidative stress and
neurodegeneration. Ameliorating the neurotrophic imbalance during early
stages of brain development can serve as a potential therapeutic
approach for autism. P6 represents a new class of neurotrophic peptide
mimetics that has potential therapeutic value for ASD and related
conditions.

[Supporting Information](#calibre_link-0)

[S1
Fig.](http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchSingleRepresentation.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.s001)
The body weight evaluation of young Wistar rats from postnatal day 3 to
21. Data are presented as mean±S.E.M. based on sham (n = 17), autism
serum (n = 16), autism serum

+P6 (n = 17), control serum (n = 16), and control serum+P6 (n = 17).

(TIF)

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

25 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-12}![Image 40](images/000026.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[S2
Fig.](http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchSingleRepresentation.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.s002)
Performance in negative geotaxis testing on postnatal days 8, 11, and 14
(A) and cliff aversion on postnatal days 9, 12, and 15 (B). Data are
presented as mean±S.E.M. based on sham (n = 17), autism serum (n =
15--16), autism serum+P6 (n = 16--17), control serum (n = 15--16), and
control serum+P6 (n = 16--17). p\<0.05, p\<0.01, and p\<0.001. ANOVA
with Bonferroni's post-hoc test and/or Student's t-test.

(TIF)

[S3
Fig.](http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchSingleRepresentation.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.s003)
General behavioral characterization in young Wistar rats injected
intracerebroventricularly on P 0.5 with sham or 2% autism or control
serum with or without 20 nM P6.

Anxiety-like behaviors were evaluated by (A) percent time in the open
arm, OA (ANOVA, p =

0.8551), and (B) number of entries to OA (ANOVA, p = 0.5295) in an
elevated plus maze on postnatal day 18--19, and (C) time in the center
(ANOVA, p = 0.9975) in an open field arena on postnatal day 19--20.
There was a trend towards decreased number of OA entries in autism serum
injected young rats (sham group vs autism serum group, Bonferroni's post
hoc test, p\>0.05, Student's t-test, p = 0.08). (D) Spontaneous
locomotor and exploratory activities were assessed in open field
\[repeated measures 2-way ANOVA, group effect, F = 0.34 (8, 219), p =

0.9513\]. (E) Motor strength was evaluated by latency to fall in
prehensile traction test on postnatal day 24--25 (ANOVA, p = 0.9332).
(F) Behavioral despair and depression-like behavior was analyzed by
immobility time in forced swim test on postnatal day 24--25 (ANOVA, p =
0.9410).

Data are presented as mean±S.E.M. based on sham (n = 15--17), autism
serum (n = 15--17), autism serum+P6 (n = 15--17), control serum (n =
15--17), and control serum+P6 (n = 15--17).

(TIF)

[S4
Fig.](http://www.plosone.org/article/fetchSingleRepresentation.action?uri=info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0118627.s004)
Effect of treatment with autism and control sera with or without P6 on
markers of neuroinflammation in the cerebral cortex of young Wistar
rats. P 0.5 rats were injected intracerebroventricularly with saline
(sham) or 2% autism or control serum with or without 20

nM P6. On postnatal day 26--27, rats were sacrificed and their brains
were evaluated by Western blots. (A and B) Representative Western blots
and densitometric quantification of GFAP

and Iba1 expression normalized to GAPDH in the cerebral cortex of young
Wistar rats. Data are presented as mean±S.E.M. based on sham (n = 6),
autism serum (n = 6), autism serum+P6

(n = 6), control serum (n = 6), and control serum+P6 (n = 6). p\<0.05.
ANOVA with Bonferroni's post-hoc test and/or Student's t-test.

(TIF)

Acknowledgments

We are thankful to Dr. Ira L.Cohen and Dr. Maripaz Gonzalez (Department
of Psychology, New York State Institute for Basic Research in
Developmental Disabilities, Staten Island, New York, U.S.A.) and Dr.
Edmund C. Jenkins (Department of Human Genetics, New York State
Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities, Staten
Island, New York, U.S.A.) for providing the human serum samples from
autistic and control subjects along with their clinical data; to Drs.
Bin Li and Alejandra del C. Alonso for the earlier unpublished work in
our lab on the effect of sera from autistic children on human fetal
neural progenitor cells; to Dr. Kathryn Chadman (Department of
Developmental Neurobiology, New York State Institute for Basic Research
in Developmental Disabilities, Staten Island, New York, U.S.A.) for
guidance and logistic support in behavioral studies involving ultrasonic
vocalization and social approach testing; to Dr. George Merz for
assistance with confocal microscopy; and to Ms. Janet Murphy for
secretarial assistance.

This paper is dedicated to Dr. Inge Grundke-Iqbal who passed away on
September 22, 2012.

Dr. Grundke-Iqbal initiated the work with neurotrophic factors small
peptide mimetics and was the co-supervisor for the current study.

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

26 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-1}![Image 41](images/000038.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

Author Contributions

Conceived and designed the experiments: SFK IGI KI. Performed the
experiments: SFK

MDCC MA JB FF. Analyzed the data: SFK MDCC MA JB. Contributed
reagents/materials/

analysis tools: SFK IGI KI. Wrote the paper: SFK KI.

References

[1.](#calibre_link-20)

Polšek D, Jagatic T, Cepanec M, Hof PR, Simić G. Recent developments in
neuropathology of autism spectrum disorder. Transl Neurosci. 2011; 2:
256--64. PMID: [22180840](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22180840)

[2.](#calibre_link-0)

Amaral DG, Schumann CM, Nordahl CW. Neuroanatomy of autism. Trends
Neurosci. 2008; 31: 137--

45\. doi:
[10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.005](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.005)
PMID: [18258309](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18258309)

[3.](#calibre_link-20)

Acosta MT, Pearl PL. The neurobiology of autism: new pieces of the
puzzle. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2003; 3: 149--56. PMID:
[12583844](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12583844)

[4.](#calibre_link-21)

Courchesne E, Pierce K, Schumann CM, Redcay E, Buckwalter JA, Kennedy
DP, et al. Mapping early brain development in autism. Neuron 2007; 56:
399--413. PMID: [17964254](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17964254)

[5.](#calibre_link-21)

Lord C, Cook EH, Leventhal BL, Amaral DG. Autism spectrum disorders.
Neuron 2000; 28: 355--63.

PMID: [11144346](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11144346)

[6.](#calibre_link-21)

Baio J. Prevalence of Autism Spectrum Disorders: Autism and
Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network, 14 Sites, United States,
2008. MMWR Surveill Summ. 2012; 61:1--19. PMID:
[23235338](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23235338)

[7.](#calibre_link-21)

Nickl-Jockschat T, Michel TM. The role of neurotrophic factors in
autism. Mol Psychiatry 2011; 16: 478--90. doi:
[10.1038/mp.2010.103](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/mp.2010.103) PMID:
[20938434](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20938434)

[8.](#calibre_link-21)

Chauhan A, Chauhan V. Oxidative stress in autism. Pathophysiology 2006;
13: 171--81. PMID:

[16766163](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16766163)

[9.](#calibre_link-21)

Sajdel-Sulkowska EM. Oxidative stress and neurotrophin signaling in
autism. In: Chauhan A, Chauhan V, Brown WT, editors. Autism: oxidative
stress, inflammation, and immune abnormalities. Florida: CRC Press Inc.;
2010. pp 47--60.

[10.](#calibre_link-0)

Courchesne E, Karns CM, Davis HR, Ziccardi R, Carper RA, Tigue ZD, et
al. Unusual brain growth patterns in early life in patients with
autistic disorder: an MRI study. Neurology 2001; 57: 245--254.

PMID: [11468308](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11468308)

[11.](#calibre_link-0)

Courchesne E, Carper R, Akshoomoff N. Evidence of brain overgrowth in
the first year of life in autism.

JAMA 2003; 290: 337--44. PMID:
[12865374](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12865374)

[12.](#calibre_link-0)

Hazlett HC, Poe M, Gerig G, Smith RG, Provenzale J, Ross A, et al.
Magnetic resonance imaging and head circumference study of brain size in
autism: birth through age 2 years. Arch Gen Psychiatry 2005; 62:
1366--76. PMID: [16330725](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16330725)

[13.](#calibre_link-0)

Sparks BF, Friedman SD, Shaw DW, Aylward EH, Echelard D, Artru AA, et
al. Brain structural abnormalities in young children with autism
spectrum disorder. Neurology 2002; 59: 184--92. PMID:

[12136055](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12136055)

[14.](#calibre_link-0)

Dissanayake C, Bui QM, Huggins R, Loesch DZ. Growth in stature and head
circumference in high-functioning autism and Asperger disorder during
the first 3 years of life. Dev Psychopathol. 2006; 18: 381--93. PMID:
[16600060](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16600060)

[15.](#calibre_link-0)

Dawson G, Munson J, Webb SJ, Nalty T, Abbott R, Toth K. Rate of head
growth decelerates and symptoms worsen in the second year of life in
autism. Biol Psychiatry 2007; 61: 458--64. PMID:

[17137564](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17137564)

[16.](#calibre_link-0)

Kemper TL, Bauman M. Neuropathology of infantile autism. J Neuropathol
Exp Neurol. 1998; 57: 645--52. PMID:
[9690668](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9690668)

[17.](#calibre_link-21)

Kemper TL, Bauman M. Neuropathology of infantile autism. Mol Psychiatry
2002; 7: S12--S13. PMID:

[12142934](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12142934)

[18.](#calibre_link-21)

Bourgeron T. A synaptic trek to autism. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2009; 19:
231--4. doi:
[10.1016/j.conb.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.conb.2009.06.003)

[2009.06.003](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.conb.2009.06.003) PMID:
[19545994](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19545994)

[19.](#calibre_link-21)

Kaur N, Lu B, Monroe RK, Ward SM, Halvorsen SW. Inducers of oxidative
stress block ciliary neurotrophic factor activation of Jak/STAT
signaling in neurons. J Neurochem. 2005; 92: 1521--30. PMID:

[15748169](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15748169)

[20.](#calibre_link-0)

Linker RA, Mäurer M, Gaupp S, Martini R, Holtmann B, Giess R, et al.
CNTF is a major protective factor in demyelinating CNS disease: a
neurotrophic cytokine as modulator in neuroinflammation. Nat Med. 2002;
8: 620--4. PMID: [12042814](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12042814)

[21.](#calibre_link-21)

Askvig JM, Lo DY, Sudbeck AW, Behm KE, Leiphon LJ, Watt JA. Inhibition
of the JAK-STAT pathway prevents CNTF-mediated survival of axotomized
oxytocinergic magnocellular neurons in organotypic PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

27 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-2}![Image 42](images/000003.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

cultures of the rat supraoptic nucleus. Exp Neurol. 2013; 240: 75--87.
doi:
[10.1016/j.expneurol.2012.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2012.10.023)

[10.023](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2012.10.023) PMID:
[23123407](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23123407)

[22.](#calibre_link-21)

Al-Ayadhi LY. Relationship between Sonic hedgehog protein, brain-derived
neurotrophic factor and oxidative stress in autism spectrum disorders.
Neurochem Res. 2012; 37: 394--400. doi:
[10.1007/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11064-011-0624-x)

[s11064-011-0624-x](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11064-011-0624-x) PMID:
[21984201](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21984201)

[23.](#calibre_link-21)

Chen H, Tung YC, Li B, Iqbal K, Grundke-Iqbal I. Trophic factors
counteract elevated FGF-2-induced inhibition of adult neurogenesis.
Neurobiol Aging 2007; 28: 1148--62. PMID:
[16859812](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16859812)

[24.](#calibre_link-21)

Hutter-Paier B, Grygar E, Frühwirth M, Temmel I, Windisch M. Further
evidence that Cerebrolysin protects cortical neurons from
neurodegeneration in vitro. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1998; 53: 363--72.

PMID: [9700672](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9700672)

[25.](#calibre_link-21)

Tatebayashi Y, Lee MH, Li L, Iqbal K, Grundke-Iqbal I. The dentate gyrus
neurogenesis: a therapeutic target for Alzheimer\'s disease. Acta
Neuropathol. 2003; 105: 225--32. PMID:
[12557008](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12557008)

[26.](#calibre_link-21)

Krasnoperova MG, Bashina VM, Skvortsov IA, Simashkova NV. The effect of
cerebrolysin on cognitive functions in childhood autism and in Asperger
syndrome. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova 2003; 103: 15--8. PMID:
[14763251](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14763251)

[27.](#calibre_link-21)

Chen ZY, Cao L, Wang LM, Guo C, Ye JL, Chai YF, et al. Development of
neurotrophic molecules for treatment of neurodegeneration. Curr Protein
Pept Sci. 2001; 2: 261--76. PMID:
[12369936](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12369936)

[28.](#calibre_link-0)

Longo FM, Yang T, Knowles JK, Xie Y, Massa SM. Small molecule
neurotrophin receptor ligands: novel strategies for targeting
Alzheimer\'s disease mechanisms. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2007; 4: 503--

506\. PMID: [18220511](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18220511)

[29.](#calibre_link-21)

Lu B, Nagappan G, Guan X, Nathan PJ, Wren P. BDNF-based synaptic repair
as a disease-modifying strategy for neurodegenerative diseases. Nat Rev
Neurosci. 2013; 14: 401--16. doi:
[10.1038/nrn3505](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nrn3505)

PMID: [23674053](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23674053)

[30.](#calibre_link-21)

ALS CNTF Treatment Study Group. A double-blind placebo-controlled
clinical trial of subcutaneous recombinant human ciliary neurotrophic
factor (rHCNTF) in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Neurology 1996; 46:
1244--49. PMID: [8628460](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8628460)

[31.](#calibre_link-21)

Chohan MO, Li B, Blanchard J, Tung YC, Heaney AT, Rabe A, et al.
Enhancement of dentate gyrus neurogenesis, dendritic and synaptic
plasticity and memory by a neurotrophic peptide. Neurobiol Aging 2011;
32: 1420--34. doi:
[10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2009.08.008](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2009.08.008)
PMID: [19767127](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19767127)

[32.](#calibre_link-0)

Blanchard J, Wanka L, Tung YC, Cárdenas-Aguayo Mdel C, LaFerla FM, Iqbal
K, et al. Pharmacolog-ic reversal of neurogenic and neuroplastic
abnormalities and cognitive impairments without affecting Aβ and tau
pathologies in 3xTg-AD mice. Acta Neuropathol 2010; 120: 605--21. doi:
[10.1007/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00401-010-0734-6)

[s00401-010-0734-6](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00401-010-0734-6) PMID:
[20697724](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20697724)

[33.](#calibre_link-22)

Blanchard J, Chohan MO, Li B, Liu F, Iqbal K, Grundke-Iqbal I.
Beneficial Effect of a CNTF Tetrapep-tide on Adult Hippocampal
Neurogenesis, Neuronal Plasticity, and Spatial Memory in Mice. J
Alzheimers Dis. 2010; 21: 1185--95. doi:
[10.3233/JAD-2010-1000069](http://dx.doi.org/10.3233/JAD-2010-1000069)
PMID: [20952820](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20952820)

[34.](#calibre_link-0)

Blanchard J, Bolognin S, Chohan MO, Rabe A, Iqbal K, Grundke-Iqbal I.
Rescue of synaptic failure and alleviation of learning and memory
impairments in a trisomic mouse model of down syndrome.

J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2011; 70: 1070--79. doi:
[10.1097/NEN.0b013e318236e9ad](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/NEN.0b013e318236e9ad)
PMID:

[22082658](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22082658)

[35.](#calibre_link-21)

Bolognin S, Blanchard J, Wang X, Basurto-Islas G, Tung YC, Kohlbrenner
E, et al. An experimental rat model of sporadic Alzheimer\'s disease and
rescue of cognitive impairment with a neurotrophic peptide. Acta
Neuropathol. 2012; 123: 133--51. doi:
[10.1007/s00401-011-0908-x](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00401-011-0908-x)
PMID: [22083255](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22083255)

[36.](#calibre_link-22)

Cardenas-Aguayo Mdel C, Santa-Olalla J, Baizabal JM, Salgado LM,
Covarrubias L. Growth factor deprivation induces an alternative
non-apoptotic death mechanism that is inhibited by Bcl2 in cells derived
from neural precursor cells. J Hematother Stem Cell Res. 2003; 12:
735--48. PMID: [14977482](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14977482)

[37.](#calibre_link-0)

Cardenas-Aguayo Mdel C, Kazim SF, Grundke-Iqbal I, Iqbal K. Neurogenic
and neurotrophic effects of BDNF peptides in mouse hippocampal primary
neuronal cell cultures. PLoS One 2013; 8: e53596.

doi:
[10.1371/journal.pone.0053596](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0053596)
PMID: [23320097](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23320097)

[38.](#calibre_link-22)

Kazim SF, Blanchard J, Dai CL, Tung YC, LaFerla FM, Iqbal IG, et al.
Disease modifying effect of chronic oral treatment with a neurotrophic
peptidergic compound in a triple transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer\'s
disease. Neurobiol Dis. 2014; 71: 110--30. doi:
[10.1016/j.nbd.2014.07.001](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2014.07.001)
PMID:

[25046994](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25046994)

[39.](#calibre_link-23)

Muthaiyah B, Essa MM, Chauhan V, Chauhan A. Protective Effects of Walnut
Extract Against Amyloid Beta Peptide-Induced Cell Death and Oxidative
Stress in PC12 Cells. Neurochemistry Res. 2011; 36: 2096--2103. doi:
[10.1007/s11064-011-0533-z](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11064-011-0533-z)
PMID: [21706234](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21706234)

[40.](#calibre_link-23)

Ohkawa H, Ohishi N, Yagi K. Assay for lipid peroxide in animal tissues
by thiobarbituric acid reaction.

Anal Biochem. 1979; 95: 351--58. PMID:
[36810](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36810)

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

28 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-4}![Image 43](images/000014.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[41.](#calibre_link-24)

Branchi I, Bichler Z, Berger-Sweeney J, Ricceri L. Animal models of
mental retardation: from gene to cognitive function. Neurosci Biobehav
Rev. 2003; 27: 141--53. PMID:
[12732230](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12732230)

[42.](#calibre_link-24)

Hill JM, Lim MA, Stone MM. Developmental Milestones in the Newborn
Mouse. Neuromethods, Neuropeptide techniques 2007; 39: 131--49.

[43.](#calibre_link-25)

Lubics A, Reglodi D, Tamás A, Kiss P, Szalai M, Szalontay L, et al.
Neurological reflexes and early motor behavior in rats subjected to
neonatal hypoxic-ischemic injury. Behav Brain Res. 2005; 157: 157--65.
PMID: [15617782](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15617782)

[44.](#calibre_link-26)

Altman J, Sudarshan K. Postnatal development of locomotion in the
laboratory rat. Anim Behav.

1975; 23: 896--920. PMID:
[1200422](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1200422)

[45.](#calibre_link-0)

Dam K, Seidler FJ, Slotkin TA. Chlorpyrifos exposure during a critical
neonatal period elicits gender-selective deficits in the development of
coordination skills and locomotor activity. Brain Res Dev Brain Res.
2000; 121: 179--87. PMID:
[10876030](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10876030)

[46.](#calibre_link-26)

Hill JM, Gozes I, Hill JL, Fridkin M, Brenneman DE. Vasoactive
intestinal peptide antagonist retards the development of neonatal
behaviors in the rat. Peptides 1999; 12: 187--92.

[47.](#calibre_link-0)

Reglodi D, Kiss P, Tamás A, Lengvári I. The effects of PACAP and PACAP
antagonist on the neurobehavioral development of newborn rats. Behav
Brain Res. 2003; 140: 131--9. PMID:
[12644286](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12644286)

[48.](#calibre_link-0)

Smart JL, Dobbing J. Vulnerability of developing brain. II. Effects of
early nutritional deprivation on reflex ontogeny and development of
behaviour in the rat. Brain Res. 1971; 28: 85--95. PMID:
[5557887](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/5557887)

[49.](#calibre_link-0)

Smart JL, Dobbing J. Vulnerability of developing brain. VI. Relative
effects of foetal and early postnatal undernutrition on reflex ontogeny
and development of behaviour in the rat. Brain Res. 1971; 33: 303--

14\. PMID: [5167446](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/5167446)

[50.](#calibre_link-26)

Hill JM, Mervis RF, Avidor R, Moody TW, Brenneman DE. HIV envelope
protein-induced neuronal damage and retardation of behavioral
development in rat neonates. Brain Res. 1993; 603: 222--33.

PMID: [8461978](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8461978)

[51.](#calibre_link-24)

Toso L, Cameroni I, Roberson R, Abebe D, Bissell S, Spong CY. Prevention
of developmental delays in a Down syndrome mouse model. Obstet Gynecol.
2008; 112: 1242--51. doi:
[10.1097/AOG.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/AOG.0b013e31818c91dc)

[0b013e31818c91dc](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/AOG.0b013e31818c91dc) PMID:
[19037032](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19037032)

[52.](#calibre_link-27)

Scattoni ML, Crawley J, Ricceri L. Ultrasonic vocalizations: a tool for
behavioural phenotyping of mouse models of neurodevelopmental disorders.
Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2009; 33: 508--15. doi:
[10.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2008.08.003)

[1016/j.neubiorev.2008.08.003](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2008.08.003)
PMID: [18771687](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18771687)

[53.](#calibre_link-0)

Young DM, Schenk AK, Yang SB, Jan YN, Jan LY. Altered ultrasonic
vocalizations in a tuberous sclerosis mouse model of autism. Proc Natl
Acad Sci U S A. 2010; 107: 11074--9. doi:
[10.1073/pnas.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1005620107)

[1005620107](http://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1005620107) PMID:
[20534473](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20534473)

[54.](#calibre_link-0)

Scattoni ML, Gandhy SU, Ricceri L, Crawley JN. Unusual repertoire of
vocalizations in the BTBR T+tf/

J mouse model of autism. PLoS One 2008; 3: e3067. doi:
[10.1371/journal.pone.0003067](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0003067)
PMID:

[18728777](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18728777)

[55.](#calibre_link-27)

Shair HN. Acquisition and expression of a socially mediated separation
response. Behav Brain Res.

2007; 182: 180--92. PMID:
[17379325](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17379325)

[56.](#calibre_link-27)

Wöhr M, Schwarting RK. Maternal care, isolation-induced infant
ultrasonic calling, and their relations to adult anxiety-related
behavior in the rat. Behav Neurosci. 2008; 122: 310--30. doi:
[10.1037/0735-](http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0735-7044.122.2.310)

[7044.122.2.310](http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0735-7044.122.2.310) PMID:
[18410171](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18410171)

[57.](#calibre_link-27)

Blumberg MS, Alberts JR. On the significance of similarities between
ultrasonic vocalizations of infant and adult rats. Neurosci Biobehav
Rev. 1991; 15: 383--90. PMID:
[1956606](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1956606)

[58.](#calibre_link-27)

Bell RW, Nitschke W, Bell NJ, Zachman TA. Early experience, ultrasonic
vocalizations, and maternal responsiveness in rats. Dev Psychobiol.
1974; 7: 235--42. PMID:
[4838171](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4838171)

[59.](#calibre_link-27)

Allin JT, Banks EM. Effects of temperature on ultrasound production by
infant albino rats. Dev Psychobiol. 1971; 4: 149--56. PMID:
[5162545](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/5162545)

[60.](#calibre_link-0)

Hofer MA, Shair H. Sensory processes in the control of isolation-induced
ultrasonic vocalization by 2-week-old rats. J Comp Physiol Psychol.
1980; 94: 271--9. PMID:
[7364999](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7364999)

[61.](#calibre_link-27)

Oswalt GL, Meier GW. Olfactory, thermal, and tactual influences on
infantile ultrasonic vocalization in rats. Dev Psychobiol. 1975; 8:
129--35. PMID: [1225689](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1225689)

[62.](#calibre_link-27)

Allin JT, Banks EM. Functional aspects of ultrasound production by
infant albino rats (Rattus norvegi-cus). Anim Behav. 1972; 20: 175--85.
PMID: [4664924](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4664924)

[63.](#calibre_link-0)

Noirot E. Ultrasounds in young rodents. II. Changes with age in albino
rats. Anim Behav. 1968; 16: 129--34. PMID:
[5639891](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/5639891)

[64.](#calibre_link-27)

Naito H, Inoue M, Makino J. Ultrasonic isolation calls in genetically
high-and low-emotional rat pups.

Exp Anim. 2000; 49: 289--94. PMID:
[11109555](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11109555)

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

29 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-5}![Image 44](images/000025.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[65.](#calibre_link-27)

Kromkhun P, Katou M, Hashimoto H, Terada M, Moon C, Saito TR.
Quantitative and qualitative analysis of rat pup ultrasonic vocalization
sounds induced by a hypothermic stimulus. Lab Anim Res. 2013; 29:
77--83. doi:
[10.5625/lar.2013.29.2.77](http://dx.doi.org/10.5625/lar.2013.29.2.77)
PMID: [23825480](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23825480)

[66.](#calibre_link-27)

Schwarting RK, Wöhr M. On the relationships between ultrasonic calling
and anxiety-related behavior in rats. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2012; 45:
337--48. PMID: [22437483](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22437483)

[67.](#calibre_link-28)

Crawley JN, Chen T, Puri A, Washburn R, Sullivan TL, Hill JM, et al.
Social approach behaviors in oxytocin knockout mice: comparison of two
independent lines tested in different laboratory environments.

Neuropeptides 2007; 41: 145--63. PMID:
[17420046](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17420046)

[68.](#calibre_link-0)

Moy SS, Nadler JJ, Perez A, Barbaro RP, Johns JM, Magnuson TR, et al.
Sociability and preference for social novelty in five inbred strains: an
approach to assess autistic-like behavior in mice. Genes Brain Behav.
2004; 3: 287--302. PMID:
[15344922](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15344922)

[69.](#calibre_link-0)

Moy SS, Nadler JJ, Young NB, Perez A, Holloway LP, Barbaro RP, et al.
Mouse behavioral tasks relevant to autism: phenotypes of 10 inbred
strains. Behav Brain Res. 2007; 176: 4--20. PMID:
[16971002](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16971002)

[70.](#calibre_link-0)

Yang M, Silverman JL, Crawley JN. Automated three-chambered social
approach task for mice. Curr Protoc Neurosci. 2011; Chapter 8: Unit
8.26.

[71.](#calibre_link-15)

Crawley JN. Designing mouse behavioral tasks relevant to autistic-like
behaviors. Ment Retard Dev Disabil Res Rev. 2004; 10: 248--58. PMID:
[15666335](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15666335)

[72.](#calibre_link-28)

Silverman JL, Yang M, Lord C, Crawley JN. Behavioural phenotyping assays
for mouse models of autism. Nat Rev Neurosci. 2010; 11: 490--502. doi:
[10.1038/nrn2851](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nrn2851) PMID:
[20559336](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20559336)

[73.](#calibre_link-28)

Porsolt RD, Le Pichon M, Jalfre M. Depression: a new animal model
sensitive to antidepressant treat-ments. Nature 1977; 266: 730--2. PMID:
[559941](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/559941)

[74.](#calibre_link-28)

Porsolt RD, Bertin A, Jalfre M. Behavioral despair in mice: a primary
screening test for antidepressants. Arch Int Pharmacodyn Ther. 1977;
229: 327--36. PMID: [596982](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/596982)

[75.](#calibre_link-29)

Bensadoun A, Weinstein D. Assay of proteins in the presence of
interfering materials. Anal Biochem.

1976; 70: 241--250. PMID:
[1259145](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1259145)

[76.](#calibre_link-29)

Schmued LC, Albertson C, Slikker W Jr. Fluoro-Jade: a novel fluorochrome
for the sensitive and reliable histochemical localization of neuronal
degeneration. Brain Res. 1997; 751: 37--46. PMID:

[9098566](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9098566)

[77.](#calibre_link-29)

Wang X, Blanchard J, Grundke-Iqbal I, Wegiel J, Deng HX, Siddique T, et
al. Alzheimer disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: an
etiopathogenic connection. Acta Neuropathol. 2014; 127: 243--56.

doi:
[10.1007/s00401-013-1175-9](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00401-013-1175-9)
PMID: [24136402](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24136402)

[78.](#calibre_link-8)

Mazur-Kolecka B, Cohen IL, Gonzalez M, Jenkins EC, Kaczmarski W, Brown
WT, et al. Autoantibodies against neuronal progenitors in sera from
children with autism. Brain Dev. 2014; 36: 322--9. doi:

[10.1016/j.braindev.2013.04.015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.braindev.2013.04.015)
PMID: [23838310](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23838310)

[79.](#calibre_link-0)

Mazur-Kolecka B, Cohen IL, Jenkins EC, Flory M, Merz G, Ted Brown W, et
al. Sera from children with autism alter proliferation of human neuronal
progenitor cells exposed to oxidation. Neurotox Res.

2009; 16: 87--95. doi:
[10.1007/s12640-009-9052-y](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12640-009-9052-y)
PMID: [19526302](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19526302)

[80.](#calibre_link-8)

Mazur-Kolecka B, Cohen IL, Jenkins EC, Kaczmarski W, Flory M, Frackowiak
J. Altered development of neuronal progenitor cells after stimulation
with autistic blood sera. Brain Res. 2007; 1168: 11--20.

PMID: [17706942](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17706942)

[81.](#calibre_link-26)

Fox WM. Reflex-ontogeny and behavioural development of the mouse. Anim
Behav. 1965; 13: 234--

41\. PMID: [5835840](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/5835840)

[82.](#calibre_link-15)

Lord C, Risi S, Lambrecht L, Cook EH Jr, Leventhal BL, DiLavore PC, et
al. The autism diagnostic observation schedule-generic: a standard
measure of social and communication deficits associated with the
spectrum of autism. J Autism Dev Disord. 2000; 30: 205--23. PMID:
[11055457](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11055457)

[83.](#calibre_link-15)

Doussard-Roosevelt JA, Joe CM, Bazhenova OV, Porges SW. Mother-child
interaction in autistic and nonautistic children: characteristics of
maternal approach behaviors and child social responses. Dev
Psychopathol. 2003; 15: 277--95. PMID:
[12931828](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12931828)

[84.](#calibre_link-30)

Nickl-Jockschat T. Neurotrophic Factors in Autism Spectrum Disorders.
In: Patel VB, Preedy VR, Martin CR, editors. Comprehensive Guide to
Autism. New York: Springer; 2014. pp. 741--54.

[85.](#calibre_link-30)

Katoh-Semba R, Wakako R, Komori T, Shigemi H, Miyazaki N, Ito H, et al.
Age-related changes in BDNF protein levels in human serum: differences
between autism cases and normal controls. Int J

Dev Neurosci. 2007; 25: 367--72. PMID:
[17804189](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17804189)

[86.](#calibre_link-0)

Hashimoto K, Iwata Y, Nakamura K, Tsujii M, Tsuchiya KJ, Sekine Y, et
al. Reduced serum levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in adult
male patients with autism. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry
2006; 30: 1529--31. PMID:
[16876305](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16876305)

[87.](#calibre_link-0)

Taurines R, Segura M, Schecklmann M, Albantakis L, Grünblatt E, Walitza
S, et al. Altered peripheral BDNF mRNA expression and BDNF protein
concentrations in blood of children and adolescents with PLOS ONE \|
DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

30 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-18}![Image 45](images/000000.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

autism spectrum disorder. J Neural Transm. 2014; 121: 1117--28. doi:
[10.1007/s00702-014-1162-x](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00702-014-1162-x)

PMID: [24500031](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24500031)

[88.](#calibre_link-30)

Abdallah MW, Mortensen EL, Greaves-Lord K, Larsen N, Bonefeld-Jørgensen
EC, Nørgaard-Peder-sen B, et al. Neonatal levels of neurotrophic factors
and risk of autism spectrum disorders. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2013; 128:
61--69. doi: [10.1111/acps.12020](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/acps.12020)
PMID: [23039165](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23039165)

[89.](#calibre_link-30)

Nelson KB, Grether JK, Croen LA, Dambrosia JM, Dickens BF, Jelliffe LL,
et al. Neuropeptides and neurotrophins in neonatal blood of children
with autism or mental retardation. Ann Neurol. 2001; 49: 597--606. PMID:
[11357950](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11357950)

[90.](#calibre_link-0)

Miyazaki K, Narita N, Sakuta R, Miyahara T, Naruse H, Okado N, et al.
Serum neurotrophin concentrations in autism and mental retardation: a
pilot study. Brain Dev. 2004; 26: 292--5. PMID:
[15165668](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15165668)

[91.](#calibre_link-0)

Ricci S, Businaro R, Ippoliti F, Lo Vasco VR, Massoni F, Onofri E, et
al. Altered cytokine and BDNF

levels in autism spectrum disorder. Neurotox Res. 2013; 24: 491--501.
doi: [10.1007/s12640-013-](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12640-013-9393-4)

[9393-4](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12640-013-9393-4) PMID:
[23604965](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23604965)

[92.](#calibre_link-0)

Correia CT, Coutinho AM, Sequeira AF, Sousa IG, Lourenço Venda L,
Almeida JP, et al. Increased BDNF levels and NTRK2 gene association
suggest a disruption of BDNF/TrkB signaling in autism.

Genes Brain Behav. 2010; 9: 841--8. doi:
[10.1111/j.1601-183X.2010.00627.x](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1601-183X.2010.00627.x)
PMID: [20662941](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20662941)

[93.](#calibre_link-30)

Tsai SJ. Is autism caused by early hyperactivity of brain-derived
neutrophic factor? Med. Hypotheses 2005; 5: 79--82.

[94.](#calibre_link-31)

Garcia KL, Yu G, Nicolini C, Michalski B, Garzon DJ, Chiu VS, et al.
Altered balance of proteolytic iso-forms of pro-brain-derived
neurotrophic factor in autism. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2012; 71: 289--

97\. doi:
[10.1097/NEN.0b013e31824b27e4](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/NEN.0b013e31824b27e4)
PMID: [22437340](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22437340)

[95.](#calibre_link-31)

Moon C, Yoo JY, Matarazzo V, Sung YK, Kim EJ, Ronnett GV, et al.
Leukemia inhibitory factor inhibits neuronal terminal differentiation
through STAT3 activation. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2002; 99: 9015--

20\. PMID: [12084939](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12084939)

[96.](#calibre_link-0)

Metcalf D. The unsolved enigmas of leukemia inhibitory factor. Stem
Cells 2003; 21: 5--14. PMID:

[12529546](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12529546)

[97.](#calibre_link-0)

Bonaguidi MA, McGuire T, Hu M, Kan L, Samanta J, Kessler JA. Lif and bmp
signaling generate separate and discrete types of gfap-expressing cells.
Development 2005; 132: 5503--5514. PMID:

[16314487](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16314487)

[98.](#calibre_link-0)

Bauer S, Patterson PH. Leukemia inhibitory factor promotes neural stem
cell self-renewal in the adult brain. J Neurosci. 2006; 26: 12089--99.
PMID: [17108182](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17108182)

[99.](#calibre_link-31)

Shimazaki T, Shingo T, Weiss S. The ciliary neurotrophic fac-
tor/leukemia inhibitory factor/gp130 receptor complex operates in the
maintenance of mammalian forebrain neural stem cells. J Neurosci.

2001; 21: 7642--53. PMID:
[11567054](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11567054)

[100.](#calibre_link-31)

Kern JK, Jones AM. Evidence of toxicity, oxidative stress, and neuronal
insult in autism. J Toxicol Environ Health B Crit Rev. 2006; 9: 485--99.
PMID: [17090484](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17090484)

[101.](#calibre_link-31)

Chauhan A, Chauhan V, Brown WT, Cohen I. Oxidative stress in autism:
increased lipid peroxidation and reduced serum levels of ceruloplasmin
and transferrin---the antioxidant proteins. Life Sci. 2004; 75:
2539--49. PMID: [15363659](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15363659)

[102.](#calibre_link-31)

Bailey A, Luthert P, Dean A, Harding B, Janota I, Montgomery M, et al. A
clinicopathological study of autism. Brain 1998; 121: 889--905. PMID:
[9619192](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9619192)

[103.](#calibre_link-0)

Guerin P, Lyon G, Barthelemy C, Sostak E, Chevrollier V, Garreau B, et
al. Neuropathological study of a case of autistic syndrome with severe
mental retardation. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1996; 38: 203--

11\. PMID: [8631517](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8631517)

[104.](#calibre_link-31)

Vargas DL, Nascimbene C, Krishnan C, Zimmerman AW, Pardo CA. Neuroglial
activation and neuroinflammation in the brain of patients with autism.
Ann Neurol. 2005; 57: 67--81. PMID:
[15546155](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15546155)

[105.](#calibre_link-31)

Pardo-Villamizar CA, Zimmerman AW. Inflammation and neuroimmunity in the
pathogenesis of autism: Neural and immune network interactions. In:
Chauhan A, Chauhan V, Brown WT, editors. Autism: oxidative stress,
inflammation, and immune abnormalities. Florida: CRC Press Inc; 2010. pp
225--44.

[106.](#calibre_link-0)

Fields RD, Stevens-Graham B. New insights into neuron-glia
communication. Science 2002; 298: 556--62. PMID:
[12386325](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12386325)

[107.](#calibre_link-31)

Murai KK, Van Meyel DJ. Neuron glial communication at synapses: insights
from vertebrates and in-vertebrates. Neuroscientist 2007; 13: 657--66.
PMID: [17911218](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17911218)

[108.](#calibre_link-31)

Laurence JA, Fatemi SH. Glial fibrillary acidic protein is elevated in
superior frontal, parietal and cere-bellar cortices of autistic
subjects. Cerebellum 2005; 4: 206--10. PMID:
[16147953](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16147953)

[109.](#calibre_link-31)

Polleux F, Lauder JM. Toward a developmental neurobiology of autism.
Ment Retard Dev Disabil Res Rev. 2004; 10: 303--17. PMID:
[15666334](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15666334)

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

31 / 32

[]{#calibre_link-19}![Image 46](images/000035.png){.calibre2}

Rescue of Autism Induced by Autistic Sera with a CNTF Peptide

[110.](#calibre_link-0)

Beversdorf DQ, Manning SE, Hillier A, Anderson SL, Nordgren RE, Walters
SE, et al. Timing of prenatal stressors and autism. J Autism Dev Disord.
2005; 35: 471--8. PMID:
[16134032](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16134032)

[111.](#calibre_link-31)

Miller MT, Strömland K, Ventura L, Johansson M, Bandim JM, Gillberg C.
Autism associated with conditions characterized by developmental errors
in early embryogenesis: a mini review. Int J Dev Neurosci. 2005; 23:
201--19. PMID: [15749246](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15749246)

[112.](#calibre_link-31)

Andersen SL. Trajectories of brain development: point of vulnerability
or window of opportunity? Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2003; 27: 3--18. PMID:
[12732219](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12732219)

[113.](#calibre_link-0)

Bernd P. The role of neurotrophins during early development. Gene Expr.
2008; 14: 241--50. PMID:

[19110723](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19110723)

[114.](#calibre_link-0)

Holtzman DM, Mobley WC. Neurotrophic factors and neurologic disease.
West J Med. 1994; 161: 246--54. PMID:
[7975562](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7975562)

[115.](#calibre_link-31)

Chapleau CA, Larimore JL, Theibert A, Pozzo-Miller L. Modulation of
dendritic spine development and plasticity by BDNF and vesicular
trafficking: fundamental roles in neurodevelopmental disorders
associated with mental retardation and autism. J Neurodev Disord. 2009;
1: 185--96. doi: [10.1007/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11689-009-9027-6)

[s11689-009-9027-6](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11689-009-9027-6) PMID:
[19966931](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19966931)

[116.](#calibre_link-10)

Rola R, Zou Y, Huang TT, Fishman K, Baure J, Rosi S, et al. Lack of
extracellular superoxide dismut-ase (EC-SOD) in the microenvironment
impacts radiation-induced changes in neurogenesis. Free Radic Biol Med.
2007; 42: 1133--45. PMID:
[17382195](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17382195)

[117.](#calibre_link-10)

Ishii J, Natsume A, Wakabayashi T, Takeuchi H, Hasegawa H, Kim SU, et
al. The free-radical scaven-ger edaravone restores the differentiation
of human neural precursor cells after radiation-induced oxidative
stress. Neurosci Lett. 2007; 423: 225--30. PMID:
[17709197](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17709197)

[118.](#calibre_link-10)

Chohan MO, Bragina O, Kazim SF, Statom G, Baazaoui N, Bragin D, et al.
Enhancement of Neurogenesis and Memory by a Neurotrophic Peptide in Mild
to Moderate Traumatic Brain Injury. Neurosur-gery 2015; 76: 201--15 doi:
[10.1227/NEU.0000000000000577](http://dx.doi.org/10.1227/NEU.0000000000000577)
PMID: [25255260](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25255260)

[119.](#calibre_link-10)

Iqbal K, Kazim SF, Bolognin S, Blanchard J. Shifting balance from
neurodegeneration to regeneration of the brain: a novel therapeutic
approach to Alzheimer\'s disease and related neurodegenerative
conditions. Neural Regen Res. 2014; 9: 1518--9. doi:
[10.4103/1673-5374.139477](http://dx.doi.org/10.4103/1673-5374.139477)
PMID: [25317168](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25317168)

[120.](#calibre_link-10)

DeChiara TM, Vejsada R, Poueymirou WT, Acheson A, Suri C, Conover JC, et
al. Mice lacking the CNTF receptor, unlike mice lacking CNTF, exhibit
profound motor neuron deficits at birth. Cell 1995; 83: 313--22. PMID:
[7585948](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7585948)

[121.](#calibre_link-10)

Finn TP, Kim S, Nishi R. Overexpression of ciliary neurotrophic factor
in vivo rescues chick ciliary gan-glion neurons from cell death. J
Neurobiol. 1998; 34: 283--93. PMID:
[9485052](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9485052)

[122.](#calibre_link-10)

Ebadi M, Srinivasan SK, Baxi MD. Oxidative stress and antioxidant
therapy in Parkinson\'s disease.

Prog Neurobiol. 1996; 48: 1--19. PMID:
[8830346](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8830346)

[123.](#calibre_link-10)

Lu B, Nagappan G, Guan X, Nathan PJ, Wren P. BDNF-based synaptic repair
as a disease-modifying strategy for neurodegenerative diseases. Nat Rev
Neurosci. 2013; 14: 401--16. doi:
[10.1038/nrn3505](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nrn3505)

PMID: [23674053](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23674053)

[124.](#calibre_link-10)

Wu CL, Chen SD, Hwang CS, Yang DI. Sonic hedgehog mediates BDNF-induced
neuroprotection against mitochondrial inhibitor 3-nitropropionic acid.
Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2009; 385: 112--7. doi:
[10.1016/j.bbrc.2009.04.145](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2009.04.145)
PMID: [19422804](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19422804)

[125.](#calibre_link-10)

Wu CL, Hwang CS, Yang DI. Protective effects of brain-derived
neurotrophic factor against neurotoxicity of 3-nitropropionic acid in
rat cortical neurons. Neurotoxicology 2009; 30: 718--26. doi:
[10.1016/j.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuro.2009.03.008)

[neuro.2009.03.008](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuro.2009.03.008) PMID:
[19428112](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19428112)

PLOS ONE \| DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0118627

March 13, 2015

32 / 32

[View publication
stats](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/273955663)
:::

.calibre { display: block; font-size: 1em; margin-bottom: 0;
margin-left: 5pt; margin-right: 5pt; margin-top: 0; padding-left: 0;
padding-right: 0 } .calibre1 { display: block; margin-bottom: 1em;
margin-left: 0; margin-right: 0; margin-top: 1em } .calibre2 { height:
auto; width: auto } .calibre3 { font-weight: bold } .calibre4 {
font-style: italic } .calibre5 { display: block; font-size: 1.41667em;
font-weight: bold; line-height: 1.2; margin-bottom: 0.83em; margin-left:
0; margin-right: 0; margin-top: 0.83em; page-break-before: always }
.sigilnotintoc { display: block; font-size: 1.125em; font-weight: bold;
line-height: 1.2; margin-bottom: 1em; margin-left: 0; margin-right: 0;
margin-top: 1em } \@page { margin-bottom: 5pt; margin-top: 5pt }
